ANNUAL REPORT 
AND ACCOUNTS 2024
Building
New
Futures

--- PAGE BREAK ---

ABOUT US
Balfour Beatty is a leading international infrastructure group with 
27
,000 employees driving the delivery of powerful new solutions, 
shaping thinking, creating skylines and inspiring a new generation 
of talent to be the change-makers of tomorrow.
We finance, develop, build, maintain and operate the increasingly 
complex and critical infrastructure that supports national economies, 
and deliver projects at the heart of local communities.
IN THIS REPORT
p14
p22
Well positioned in growth markets 
We are leveraging our expertise and proven track record 
to capitalise on high‑growth markets to secure new opportunities.
Digital and AI advancements
Our digital-first approach enhances safety, productivity 
and assurance through AI, data lakes and digital tools.
Icon Awards 
In 2024, we celebrated our inaugural Icon Awards at the 
world-class V&A Museum in London, bringing together almost 
400 colleagues from across the UK, US and Hong Kong to 
celebrate the very best of Balfour Beatty.
p74
LOOK OUT FOR THE 
ICON AWARDS LOGO TO 
READ OUR WINNERS’ 
STORIES THROUGHOUT 
THE REPORT.
FIND OUT MORE AT: WWW.BALFOURBEATTY.COM
FRONT COVER IMAGE:
(Left to right) Martina Doussias, 
Senior Project Accountant, Nick 
Stenman, Assistant Superintendent, 
and Karli Franks, Marketing Lead, on 
site at the Southwestern College 
Student Union project in California. 
Photo credit: Emil Kara, Multimedia 
Manager – US Buildings.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

1
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
CONTENTS
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
STRATEGIC REPORT
Financial performance
1
Balfour Beatty at a glance
2
Group Chair’s introduction
4
Our business model 
8
Group Chief Executive’s review 
10 
Market review 
14
Our strategy: Build to Last
24
Stakeholder value 
26
Operational review
30
Directors’ valuation of the 
Investments portfolio
38
Health, safety and wellbeing 
40
Ethics and compliance
46
Tax strategy
47
Sustainability
48
Our people
68
Non-financial and sustainability 
information statement
79
Measuring our financial 
performance
80
Chief Financial Officer’s review
86
Risk management
89
Viability statement
106
Climate change and Task 
Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
107
GOVERNANCE
Board leadership and 
Company purpose
117
Division of responsibilities 
132
Composition, succession 
and evaluation
136
Nomination Committee 
140
Safety and Sustainability 
Committee
144
Audit and Risk Committee
146
Remuneration Committee
153
Directors’ report
175
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Independent auditor’s report 
179
Financial statements 
188
Notes to the financial statements 
198
OTHER INFORMATION
Unaudited Group 
five-year summary 
276
Shareholder information
277
 
UNDERLYING 
REVENUE¹ £m
8,931
9,595
10,015
8,587
8,280
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
24
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
21
22
22
22
22
22
22
22
22
22
22
23
23
23
23
23
23
23
23
23
23
 
UNDERLYING PROFIT FROM 
OPERATIONS (PFO) £m
197
279
51
228
248
 
UNDERLYING EARNINGS PER 
SHARE (BASIC) Pence
37.3
43.6
29.7
47.5
3.7
 
ORDER BOOK¹ 
£bn
16.5
18.4
16.1
17.4
16.4
 
NET CASH
£m
842
943
790
815
581
 
STATUTORY NET CASH/
(BORROWINGS) £m
435
446
418
441
139
 
STATUTORY REVENUE
£m
7,185
7,629
7,320
7,993
8,234
 
STATUTORY PROFIT 
FOR THE YEAR £m
194
178
139
287
30
 
STATUTORY EARNINGS 
PER SHARE (BASIC) Pence
35.3
34.2
21.3
46.9
4.4
 
DIVIDENDS PER SHARE
Pence
9.0
10.5
1.5
11.5
12.5
KEY
 Performance measures
 Statutory measures
1 Including share of joint 
ventures and associates, 
before non‑underlying items.
The Group has presented financial performance measures which are considered most relevant 
to the Group and used to manage the Group’s performance. An explanation of these measures 
and appropriate reconciliations to statutory measures are provided on pages 80 to 85.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

2
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
BALFOUR BEATTY AT A GLANCE
NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES
27,000
DIRECTORS’ VALUATION 
INVESTMENTS PORTFOLIO
£1.3bn
REVENUE1
£10,015m
UNDERLYING PROFIT 
BEFORE TAX 
£289m
Group highlights 
1 Including share of joint ventures and associates.
l United Kingdom
£9.4bn
l United States
£7.1bn
l Hong Kong
£1.9bn
GROUP ORDER BOOK1
£18.4bn
Our Cultural Framework
Balfour Beatty’s Cultural Framework provides a simple and clear view 
of our purpose, values and behaviours under our Build to Last strategy. 
The framework reflects who we are now as an international group, 
who we want to be, what we value and what drives the way we work.
International 
infrastructure 
experts
Our purpose
Our strategy
Our values
Our behaviours
Our Code of Ethics
Our behaviours reflect the things we will do to consistently 
deliver to the standard set out in our values.
Our values reflect the norms and beliefs that drive the way 
we work and how we measure ourselves.
TALK 
POSITIVELY
COLLABORATE 
RELENTLESSLY
ENCOURAGE 
CONSTANTLY
MAKE A 
DIFFERENCE
VALUE 
EVERYONE
LEAN
EXPERT
TRUSTED
SAFE
SUSTAINABLE
Building New Futures
We are leading the transformation of our 
industry to meet the challenges of the future. 
Build to Last
Build to Last is our strategy 
for continuous improvement. 
Our Code of Ethics is the foundation of everything we do. 
It provides a clear direction on the standards, values and 
expectations that guide the behaviours of our employees and 
supply chain partners.
SCAN OR CLICK TO 
FIND OUT MORE 
ABOUT OUR CULTURAL 
FRAMEWORK
FIND OUT MORE ABOUT OUR 
STRATEGY AND VALUES
p24 and 25
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

3
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Construction Services
Specialises in the design and construction of 
major infrastructure and building projects in 
the UK, US and Hong Kong.
Support Services
Maintains, upgrades and manages vital 
services across the power transmission, 
distribution, utilities, road and rail sectors.
Infrastructure Investments
Operates and maintains infrastructure projects 
and a portfolio of military and multifamily 
housing and student accommodation assets.
Hong Kong International Airport for the
Airport Authority Hong Kong.
Tealing Substation, Scotland for SSEN Transmission. 
JBWS Charleston Homes, military family 
housing for the US Navy.
Our divisions
Selective bidding 
for contracts
Our stringent gated lifecycle process 
allows us to carefully control our project 
portfolio on an ongoing basis. 
Financial 
performance
ORDER BOOK1
£15.2bn
ORDER BOOK1
£3.2bn
DIRECTORS’ VALUATION 
£1.3bn
REVENUE1
£8,199m
UNDERLYING PROFIT 
FROM OPERATIONS
£159m
STATUTORY PROFIT 
FROM OPERATIONS
£87m
REVENUE1
£606m
UNDERLYING 
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
£54m
STATUTORY PROFIT 
BEFORE TAX
£51m
REVENUE1
£1,210m
UNDERLYING PROFIT 
FROM OPERATIONS
£93m
STATUTORY PROFIT 
FROM OPERATIONS
£93m
FIND OUT MORE IN OUR 
BUSINESS MODEL SECTION
p8
FIND OUT MORE IN OUR 
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
FIND OUT MORE IN OUR 
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
FIND OUT MORE IN OUR 
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
p31
p35
p36
1 Including share of joint venture and associates.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
4
GROUP CHAIR’S INTRODUCTION
Shaping the future 
of infrastructure 
Charles Allen
Lord Allen of Kensington, CBE
Non-executive Group Chair
Dear Shareholders,
Throughout 2024, the world witnessed profound 
changes – from ongoing conflicts in the Middle 
East and Ukraine and geo-political landscapes 
being reshaped by key elections, to groundbreaking 
advancements in artificial intelligence. Against this 
dynamic global backdrop, Balfour Beatty started 
2025 very well positioned for continuing success, 
with infrastructure widely established as a driver 
and enabler of economic growth, energy security 
and rewarding careers.
After a decade of remarkable transformation, 
2024 was a defining year for Balfour Beatty. The 
Group has solidified its leadership in the industry, 
strengthened its brand, and delivered a strong 
financial performance. We see significant 
opportunities across our four growth markets – 
energy, defence and transport in the UK, and 
buildings in the US – with notable new projects 
contributing to a high-quality order book. Most 
importantly, our unwavering commitment to health, 
safety, and wellbeing has been a beacon of excellence, 
setting the standard for industry‑leading performance.
From this position, your Board is confident that 
Balfour Beatty’s people, resilience, innovation, 
and dedication ensure that we are not just 
securing the future of the Group but actively 
shaping the future of the infrastructure industry.
New Board appointments
During 2024, I had the pleasure of welcoming 
three exceptional leaders to the Balfour Beatty 
Board: Robert MacLeod, Gabby Costigan MBE, 
and Rudy Wynter.
Robert, now Chair of Balfour Beatty’s Audit and 
Risk Committee, is a Chartered Accountant with 
an impressive track record as a CEO and CFO, 
and brings a wealth of strategic, financial and 
commercial expertise as well as Non-executive 
Director experience. Gabby, now Chair of Balfour 
Beatty’s Safety and Sustainability Committee, is 
an Aeronautical Engineer with a rich international 
career, including 21 years in the Australian Army, 
adding a unique perspective to our leadership. 
Rudy, with over 35 years in the gas and electricity 
sector, brings extensive experience in the 
development and construction of large-scale 
engineering and capital energy projects.
These distinguished appointments have enriched 
the Board with diverse insights and expertise, 
supporting Balfour Beatty’s ambitious growth trajectory.
In March this year, following an extensive international 
selection process, the Board announced the 
appointment of Philip Hoare as Group Chief 
Executive Officer, a position he will take up in 
September 2025. Philip, a civil engineer, built his 
30-year career at AtkinsRéalis Group Inc, a global 
engineering services and nuclear enterprise where 
he has been fundamental to the growth and 
performance of the company, first as CEO 
of Atkins in the UK and Europe, and then as 
President of the global Engineering Services 
business. In January 2024, he was appointed 
Chief Operating Officer of the transformed group.
His depth of industry knowledge and experience 
in delivering a profitable growth strategy across 
multiple geographies makes him the ideal person 
to continue to drive the Group’s success in our 
chosen markets. 
On behalf of the Board, I pay tribute to Leo, for his 
exceptional and inspirational leadership of both 
Balfour Beatty and the industry over the last decade. 
Leo has transformed Balfour Beatty into a strong, 
resilient Group, setting it firmly on a trajectory of 
profitable growth. This is underpinned by a culture 
across its workforce which is committed to expertise, 
discipline and excellence, resulting in a trusted 
reputation for delivering value for all stakeholders.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

5
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Setting the standard in health, 
safety and wellbeing
In 2024, Balfour Beatty delivered its best-ever health 
and safety performance, with an industry-leading 
Lost Time Injury Rate of 0.09. With over 105 million 
hours worked, a record 470,000 health and safety 
observations, and a remarkable 95% of employees 
expressing that they feel cared for in our 2024 
employee engagement survey, these achievements 
underscore our unwavering commitment to 
health, safety and wellbeing.
This success goes beyond mere numbers – 
it reflects our embedded culture. From the 
dedication of our inspirational site supervisors to 
the meticulous discipline in our daily processes, 
often powered by pioneering digital solutions, 
to mitigate risks and assure compliance, every 
aspect of our approach is geared toward creating 
a safer, healthier, and happier workplace.
An evolving sustainability strategy
In June 2024, after significant investment in our 
sustainability capabilities and a thorough evaluation 
of the developing landscape, we evolved our 
sustainability strategy. This step established new 
targets and expanded focus areas critical to our 
business success – climate change, nature positive, 
resource efficiency, supply chain integrity, community 
engagement, and employee diversity, equity 
and inclusion.
To future-proof our approach, we set a validated 
net zero target, endorsed by the Science Based 
Targets initiative (SBTi) and supported by a fully 
transparent, UK carbon reduction plan. We also 
accelerated our UK target to achieve £3 billion 
of social value by 2030 by five years to 2025 – 
and I am very pleased to say that in 2024 we 
achieved that target. Balfour Beatty’s evolved 
strategy will ensure that we continue to lead in 
building a lasting, positive impact for our planet 
and our communities.
Strategic growth and a market 
selective approach
As we embark on another decade of infrastructure 
expansion with its unparalleled opportunities, 
Balfour Beatty’s diverse geographical and operational 
portfolio, coupled with its leading reputation in 
engineering and construction, positions us as 
critical to the delivery of transformative 
infrastructure projects. 
The dynamic market coupled with strong 
governance and controls means that Balfour 
Beatty is well placed to select projects that align 
with our strengths and drive sustainable growth 
for the Company.
LEFT
Charles at our ‘Meet the 
Affinity Networks’ event in the 
Canary Wharf office in London.​
Balfour Beatty 
is well placed to 
select projects 
that align with our 
strengths and drive 
sustainable growth 
for the Company.”
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
6
Building our reputation as the 
employer of choice
Balfour Beatty’s differentiator is its depth of 
unique capability. Behind this lies a long-term 
strategy of attracting, retaining and developing 
top talent at all career stages. Our aim is to 
become the employer of choice by combining 
unmatched career opportunities with a diverse 
and inclusive culture. 
Our commitment to valuing and investing in 
our colleagues is a cornerstone of this goal. 
Our approach empowers employees to transition 
into leadership roles, strengthening our succession 
pipeline and ensuring the successful delivery of 
future projects. By focusing on early career 
development – through hiring apprentices, 
graduates and trainees, now comprising over 
7
.3% of our workforce – and offering targeted 
programmes such as the Aspiring and Future 
Leaders initiatives in the UK and the Executive 
Leadership and Development programmes in the 
US – we are cultivating the leaders of tomorrow.
Our latest employee engagement survey saw 
a remarkable 84% engagement score in 2024, 
marking our seventh year of continuous improvement, 
up 3% from 2023 and 11% above the industry 
average, with 82% of employees participating. 
This strong response underscores our employees’ 
commitment to and pride in the business. 
Driving a productivity revolution: 
leading the digital and AI frontier
Harnessing transformative AI and digital 
technology allows us to work smarter, optimising 
resource allocation, streamlining processes, 
improving decision making, and delivering 
projects with greater efficiency and precision.
We have made significant strides in integrating 
digital innovations into our operations, and this 
year, we are set to accelerate our progress. 
This commitment is underpinned by a robust 
cybersecurity framework – a non-negotiable 
standard, especially in the highly regulated, 
high-security environments where we operate. 
Whether it is delivering critical infrastructure for 
UK defence and nuclear sectors or supporting 
the US federal and state markets, including 
our vital work with the US military, our digital 
advancements are key to maintaining the trust 
and security these projects demand.
Continuing to deliver a multi-year 
capital allocation framework 
2025 marks Balfour Beatty’s fifth consecutive year 
of share buybacks. The Company’s record order 
book, unique end-to-end capabilities and financial 
strength provide a strong platform for continuing 
shareholder returns balanced by maintaining an 
appropriate level of investment in the business 
and a strong capital position. 2024 saw £160 
million delivered to shareholders through share 
buybacks and dividends bringing total shareholder 
distributions to over £750 million since the launch 
BELOW
Charles at the launch event of The 5% Club’s Business Leadership Council in London.
Balfour Beatty’s 
differentiator is its 
depth of unique 
capability. Behind 
this lies a long-term 
strategy of attracting, 
retaining and 
developing top talent 
at all career stages.”
GROUP CHAIR’S INTRODUCTION CONTINUED
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
7
of our capital allocation framework in 2021. We are 
confident of delivering significant future capital 
returns, evidenced by the c. £125 million share 
buyback programme announced for 2025. The 
Board is also recommending a final dividend of 
8.7 pence per share, giving a total recommended 
dividend of 12.5 pence per share for the year.
Conclusion
2025 ignites a decade of infrastructure evolution 
similar in scale to the Victorian engineers in terms 
of its impact on how we live, work and connect. 
This is Balfour Beatty’s moment – an era of bold 
change and a once in a generation opportunity. 
The Group expects to continue to lead the charge, 
delivering groundbreaking projects that will fuel 
growth and enable shared prosperity. 
Section 172 statement
The Directors take their responsibilities to 
stakeholders very seriously. Throughout 2024, 
the Board reviewed existing engagement 
mechanisms across each of the Group’s key 
stakeholder groups. The Board ensures all 
complementary and divergent stakeholder 
views are understood and embedded into Board 
discussions and the decision-making process. 
In addition to having regard to the interests of 
the Group’s stakeholders, Directors also consider 
the impact of the Group’s activities on the communities 
within which it operates, the environment, and 
the Group’s reputation for high standards of 
business conduct.
The Directors seek to act in good faith in the way 
most likely to promote the long-term success of the 
Company for the benefit of its shareholders, and to 
act fairly between all of its stakeholders. Through 
the Board and the Board Committees, Directors 
have taken action to promote and support these 
objectives across the Group, details of which can 
be found throughout this Annual Report as set 
out here:
 
@ the Company’s purpose, values and behaviours 
on pages 2 and 24;
 
@ a description of key stakeholder groups and 
how the Group has engaged with stakeholders 
on pages 26 to 29 and 127 to 131;
 
@ the range of activities undertaken across the 
Group relating to sustainability matters on 
pages 48 to 67;
 
@ details of how high standards of integrity are 
maintained on page 46;
 
@ the proactive and pragmatic approach of the 
Group toward risk on pages 89 to 105;
 
@ the framework of the Company’s decision 
making on pages 132 to 135; and
 
@ details of the Company’s governance processes 
and practice on pages 117 to 139.
To our exceptional colleagues, trusted partners, 
and valued customers – thank you. Your unwavering 
commitment is at the heart of our success.
Charles Allen
Lord Allen of Kensington, CBE
Non-executive Group Chair
11 March 2025
BELOW
Charles on a site visit to Gammon’s Cyberport development, a new 10-storey office building in Hong Kong.
This is Balfour 
Beatty’s moment – 
an era of bold 
change and a once 
in a generation 
opportunity.”
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
8
Public, private and regulated entities
OUR BUSINESS MODEL 
SCAN OR CLICK TO FIND OUT 
HOW WE ARE SHAPING SOCIETY.
Understanding 
Balfour Beatty
At Balfour Beatty, we finance, 
develop, build, maintain and 
operate the increasingly 
complex and critical 
infrastructure that supports 
national economies and 
deliver projects at the heart 
of local communities.
How we work
CONSTRUCTION SERVICES
Our Construction Services businesses 
operate across infrastructure and 
buildings markets in the UK, in the 
US and in joint venture in Hong Kong.
DIVISIONS
CAPABILITIES
CUSTOMERS
 
@ Constructs buildings which include commercial, 
defence, education, government, healthcare, 
leisure, retail and residential assets and 
provides a range of services including design 
and/or build, mechanical and electrical 
engineering, shell and core and/or fit out 
and interior refurbishment.
 
@ Provides construction services for four main 
infrastructure asset types:
 
– energy: design and construction of 
large-scale, complex assets for the 
energy sector;
 
– roads: design and construction of 
motorways in the UK, the US and Hong 
Kong, including widening and converting 
existing assets;
 
– railways: design and management 
of railway systems, delivering major 
multi-disciplinary projects, track work, 
electrification and power supply; and
 
– airports: construction and refurbishment 
of major passenger terminals, passenger 
transit facilities and airport facilities, and 
airfield infrastructure and civils works.
 
@ Construction and build services for other 
infrastructure assets including flood 
and coastal defences.
 
@ Constructs and maintains electricity 
networks for power transmission and 
distribution contracts.
 
@ Provides maintenance, asset and network 
management, and design services in 
respect of highways, railways and other 
publicly available assets.
 
@ Provides support services to various 
utility assets.
 
@ Invests directly in various assets, mainly 
infrastructure with post-construction 
management opportunities.
 
@ Operates a UK and US portfolio of service 
concession assets.
 
@ Invests in real estate, particularly private 
military housing, student accommodation 
and multifamily housing.
 
@ Provides real estate management services, 
including property development and 
asset management.
SUPPORT SERVICES
Our Support Services businesses 
operate in the UK, designing, upgrading, 
managing and maintaining critical 
national infrastructure.
INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS
Our Infrastructure Investments 
business develops and finances both 
public and private infrastructure 
projects in the UK and the US.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

9
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Our differentiators 
Balanced revenue mix
1 Including share of joint ventures and associates.
 UK
44%
 US
40%
 
Rest of the World
16%
 Buildings
46%
 Infrastructure
44%
 Utilities
8%
 Other
2%
 Public
60%
 Private
25%
 Regulated
15%
BY GEOGRAPHY
Revenue by primary 
geographical market¹
BY ASSET 
Revenue by type of 
asset serviced¹
BY CUSTOMER
Revenue by public, private 
and regulated entity¹
Balfour Beatty has built an industry-leading brand based on 
its reputation as a partner that is Lean, Expert, Trusted, Safe 
and Sustainable – our five Build to Last values.
Balfour Beatty’s engineering and project management 
expertise allows it to deliver complex, one-of-a-kind 
projects and has made the Group a trusted construction 
partner for the public and private sector alike.
Balfour Beatty takes its responsibility as a custodian of the 
planet seriously and seeks to leave a positive legacy in the 
communities it works in.
Balfour Beatty invests in understanding clients’ needs, 
developing bespoke solutions, and collaborating closely 
with customers and supply chains through integrated 
delivery models.
With over 115 years of experience successfully 
delivering transformational infrastructure projects, 
Balfour Beatty has cultivated a strong track record 
of quality and reliability.
Balfour Beatty’s strong balance sheet is a testament to 
strong governance. It gives customers confidence in the 
Group’s ability to deliver, and that Balfour Beatty is here 
for the long term.
Innovation is part of Balfour Beatty’s culture, harnessing 
the power of digital and cutting-edge technology to 
drive productivity and redefine the possible.
FINANCIAL STABILITY
WORLD-CLASS TRACK RECORD
BUILD TO LAST VALUES 
INNOVATION
SUSTAINABLE FOCUS
COLLABORATION
EXPERT PEOPLE
FOR MORE INFORMATION, 
SEE PAGE 209
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
10
10
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Our investment proposition
Attractive future shareholder returns underpinned by sustained 
growth opportunities and financial strength.
High-quality and de-risked portfolio
 
@ Diverse portfolio across UK, US and Hong Kong
 
@ £18.4 billion order book
 
@ Robust governance and disciplined bidding
Expert capability
 
@ Track record of complex infrastructure delivery
 
@ Unique end-to-end capabilities
 
@ Record employee engagement
Sustained growth drivers
 
@ Governments driving growth through infrastructure
 
@ Capabilities aligned to growth markets
 
@ UK demand outweighing supply
Responsible goals
 
@ Evolved sustainability strategy launched in 2024
 
@ Net zero carbon emissions targets verified by SBTi
 
@ Ambitious community targets
Financial strength
 
@ Strong cash generation
 
@ £1.25 billion Investments portfolio
 
@ Sector leading balance sheet
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
Continued strong 
performance delivering 
profitable growth
2024 profitable growth targets achieved
Balfour Beatty delivered another year of strong 
operational performance in 2024, which resulted 
in the Group growing earnings, average cash and 
order book. The key 2024 objective of growing 
the profit from earnings-based businesses 
(Construction Services and Support Services) was 
achieved, with underlying profit from operations 
(PFO) from those businesses increasing by 7% 
to £252 million (2023: £236 million), while the 
year-end order book increased by 12% to £18.4 billion 
(2023: £16.5 billion) following progress in Balfour 
Beatty’s chosen growth markets. The Group’s underlying 
profit for the year improved to £227 million 
(2023: £205 million) driven by the earnings-based 
businesses, increased gains on Investments disposals 
and higher net finance income. Non-underlying items 
after tax were a loss of £49 million (2023: £11 million) 
and included a charge in relation to the Group’s 
obligations under the UK Building Safety Act (BSA). 
In 2024, £161 million of cash was returned to 
shareholders (2023: £208 million) through a 
combination of dividends and share buybacks 
and average net cash increased to £766 million 
compared to £700 million in 2023.
Strong Group portfolio 
performance led by UK
Balfour Beatty’s geographical, operational and 
contract diversity is a key strength of the Group, 
and has been an important factor in the consistency 
of its financial results in recent years. This was 
further demonstrated in 2024, as the Group 
Leo Quinn
Group Chief Executive 
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

11
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
delivered profitable growth in both of the 
earnings-based businesses. Construction Services 
underlying PFO increased to £159 million, as UK 
Construction PFO margin continued to improve 
with a further year of strong project delivery and 
Gammon recorded 14% revenue growth, while 
US Construction profitability reduced due to the 
cost of delays at a small number of civils projects. 
Support Services delivered strong growth, with 
revenue increasing by 20% and PFO margin 
remaining close to the top of its targeted range. 
Infrastructure Investments surpassed its disposal 
targets, which offset an increase in costs. The 
Directors’ valuation of the Investments portfolio 
increased by 3% to £1.3 billion (2023: £1.2 billion), 
with two new projects added. The Group has 
forecast further growth in the medium term, 
driven by its focus on four key markets; UK 
energy, transport and defence and US buildings.
High-quality order book providing 
foundations for 2025 and 2026
The Group’s order book grew by 12% in 2024 to 
£18.4 billion (2023: £16.5 billion), and while orders 
remain significant across Balfour Beatty’s focused 
geographic footprint of the UK, US and Hong Kong, 
the increase was largely driven by progress in two 
of the identified growth markets:
 
@ In the UK, the strengthening and upgrading of 
the power transmission network is underway 
and the demand for engineering and construction 
expertise continues to outweigh supply. Balfour 
Beatty holds market-leading capabilities in this 
space and the order book for power transmission 
and distribution work has more than doubled 
in 2024; 
 
@ In the US, the combination of the Group’s organic 
growth strategy and a more stable economy 
has resulted in the buildings business growing 
its order book by 26% (24% at constant 
exchange rate (CER)) during the year, with 
increased demand across most of its 
geographies and client sectors.
In a period of rising demand, the Group continues 
to be selective in the work it undertakes, using 
increased bid margin thresholds and utilisation 
of disciplined risk frameworks and contract 
governance to reduce risk and raise quality in the 
forward order book. As a result, the order book 
comprises a portfolio of projects that the Group 
believes has the appropriate contractual terms 
and conditions for the risk undertaken, with UK 
Construction being heavily weighted towards 
lower-risk target cost and cost plus incentivised 
fee contracts and US Construction being heavily 
weighted towards buildings projects, for which 
the Group ensures early issuing of subcontracts 
and insurance of the supply chain in order to 
protect its margin. 
Beyond the reported order book, Balfour Beatty 
has positions on several long-term frameworks, 
including Scottish and Southern Electricity 
Networks’ (SSEN) c.£10 billion Accelerated 
Strategic Transmission Investment (ASTI) 
framework and two SCAPE Civil Engineering 
frameworks in the UK, which were extended for 
two further years in 2024. The Group’s awarded 
but not contracted pipeline also grew in the year, 
due largely to the addition of SSEN’s £690 million 
Skye 132kV reinforcement project and various US 
Buildings projects. 
Looking ahead to further growth 
The Group’s outlook in each of its chosen markets 
is positive through the medium term. In the UK, 
multi-year investment in infrastructure is a priority 
and a necessity for the Government and will be 
crucial in achieving the country’s growth and clean 
energy goals. The Government has also committed 
to leveraging private investment, upskilling the 
UK’s workforce and delivering planning reform 
with the Planning and Infrastructure Bill. In the 
US, US Buildings’ organic growth strategy and a 
more stable economy have contributed to the 
division’s encouraging progress. 
The ‘Quinn-tessential’ Award
This category recognised individuals who have made an outstanding 
contribution to Balfour Beatty. The winners of this award were personally 
selected by Leo Quinn, Group Chief Executive.
READ MORE 
ABOUT OUR ICON 
AWARDS EVENT 
ON p74
Winner: Keith McCoy
Senior Vice President, US 
Buildings and Civils
Keith joined us over 31 years ago as 
a Project Engineer. Two years ago, he 
took on the Caltrain Rail job over in 
California – a herculean effort – building 
a cohesive team, tackling complex 
delivery and with a ‘Be the Best’ 
mantra that inspires people to deliver.
Winner: Steve O’Sullivan
Senior Project Director, Major Projects
Steve started his career with Balfour Beatty 44 years 
ago as an electrical apprentice aged 16. He is now 
leading our HS2 Old Oak Common station project in 
London. He is not just a Balfour Beatty leader, but an 
industry leader – one of the very best.
SCAN OR CLICK 
TO HEAR LEO’S 
THOUGHTS ON 
BALFOUR BEATTY’S 
INAUGURAL ICON 
AWARDS
In 2024, Balfour Beatty celebrated its inaugural Icon Awards at the world-class 
V&A Museum in London, bringing together almost 400 colleagues from across 
the UK, US and Hong Kong to celebrate the very best of Balfour Beatty.
Above: Award presentation photo. (Left to right) Steve O’Sullivan, Senior 
Project Director – Major Projects and Leo Quinn, Group Chief Executive.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
12
12
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
Looking ahead to further growth 
continued
 
@ UK energy: The essential long-term upgrade to 
the UK’s energy infrastructure is well underway, 
driving improvement in energy security and 
facilitating the energy transition, with significant 
and timely investment in both generation and 
network infrastructure necessary to meet the 
Government’s net zero targets. Balfour Beatty 
is heavily involved in projects such as the new 
Hinkley Point C nuclear power station and Net 
Zero Teesside and across the UK with its 
market-leading power transmission and 
distribution capability. 
 
@ US buildings: Balfour Beatty’s buildings 
operations are focused primarily on specific, 
high growth regions, with construction spending 
in the Group’s chosen states projected to grow 
7% per year to 2029, ahead of the national 
average. There are encouraging trends in the 
division’s specialist industries, with increased 
investment in government buildings, higher 
residential construction, and booming data 
centre demand. The Group has also seen 
encouraging results from its organic growth 
strategy, securing increased orders in sectors 
such as education, aviation and hospitality, as 
a result of further geographic diversification.
 
@ UK defence: Government plans to strengthen 
national security and modernise defence 
infrastructure are bringing material opportunities 
to market, with these schemes increasingly 
requiring contractors with high-security experience 
and end-to-end capabilities. Balfour Beatty’s 
capabilities and credentials, including its experiences 
in civil nuclear construction, are well matched 
to these requirements and in 2024 the Group 
was selected by Rolls-Royce as a construction 
partner for its Ministry of Defence and 
AUKUS expansion.
 
@ UK transport: Investment in the UK transport 
network is an important component of the 
Government’s growth plans and is essential to 
address ageing infrastructure, net zero targets 
and domestic and international connectivity. 
Given Balfour Beatty’s capabilities and market 
share in the construction and maintenance of 
road and rail, and its experience in delivering 
major airport projects, the Group is well 
positioned to capitalise on transport opportunities 
when they arise, with growth expected in the 
medium term. 
In the shorter term, PFO growth across 2025 and 
2026 in Balfour Beatty’s Construction Services 
division is expected to be weighted towards 
further margin improvement, rather than higher 
volumes. Growth in the Support Services division 
is expected to be largely driven by the expansion 
of work in the power transmission and distribution 
sector, which is not reliant on Government funding 
or the ongoing comprehensive spending review. 
Capability is key
The combination of a strong order book and broad 
market opportunities is supportive for Balfour 
Beatty’s growth aspirations, but as demand rises, 
challenges surrounding capability and workforce 
naturally rise too. As such, attracting and recruiting 
new talent and retaining its existing experts are 
increasingly important areas of focus and investment 
for the Group, as it looks to closely match the 
rising trajectory of work with a growing, and 
appropriately skilled, workforce. 
The annual employee engagement survey is an 
essential tool for the Group to assess its own 
performance and the progress made in the year. 
In 2024, the survey results were particularly 
strong, with overall employee engagement at 
84% (2023: 81%), which is 11 percentage points 
above the industry average. This is the seventh 
successive year of improvement in Balfour 
Beatty’s employee engagement scores. 
Balfour Beatty’s people strategy focuses on the 
four strategic pillars of Attract, Retain, Grow and 
Thrive. To attract new talent at all levels of experience, 
the Group leverages its inclusive culture, the breadth 
of its capabilities and its portfolio of nationally 
critical infrastructure projects as a powerful part of 
its employer proposition. In 2024, this contributed 
to an increase in new starters in the UK, including 
over 500 in the Power Transmission and Distribution 
business alone. To retain its talent, Balfour Beatty 
focuses on providing an inclusive environment 
where its people feel valued and can be productive, 
and progress was made in the year with the 
Group’s voluntary attrition rates in the UK 
improving to 10% (2023: 12%). This supportive 
culture also offers employees the opportunity 
to develop their skills and competencies, while 
building their careers, with the Group’s focus on 
employee wellbeing supporting them to thrive. 
At year end, 7
.3% of the UK workforce were 
apprentices, graduates and sponsored students 
in ‘earn and learn’ positions, exceeding both 
The 5% Club’s base target and overall average. 
Strong progress in pursuit 
of Zero Harm 
Health, safety and wellbeing (HS&W) continues 
to be the top priority for Balfour Beatty. Given 
the nature of the work undertaken by the Group, 
Balfour Beatty has a duty of care to all of those 
working on its projects and the public to deliver 
an industry-leading HS&W programme, which is 
present on site and reinforced each day. In 2024, 
the Group’s key metrics, which exclude international 
joint ventures, improved further and achieved 
record levels, with the Lost Time Incident 
Rate reducing from 0.11 to 0.09, the three-day 
Lost Time Injury Rate falling from 0.08 to 0.07 
and observations increasing to over 470,000 
(2023: 400,000), due in part to the US business 
almost doubling its number of observations 
raised throughout the year. 
The Group remains determined to keep raising 
the bar and taking the next step on the journey 
to Zero Harm, with further utilisation of technology 
a key enabler to this. Balfour Beatty’s introduction 
of digital permits and checklists, while enabling AI 
solutions, has contributed to the Group leading 
the industry in safety performance, while improving 
productivity and assurance. In 2024, the roll out of 
human form recognition cameras continued at 
pace. These award-winning multi‑camera systems, 
installed on mobile plant, detect the human form 
and proactively communicate this detection visually 
and audibly to the plant operator. Insights from 
the data collected, combined with advancements 
in AI, will allow for teams to plan work more safely 
and effectively in the future. AI is also being used 
to more thoroughly analyse the vast amount of 
safety data collected across Balfour Beatty, which 
will allow the Group to be more predictive in the 
identification of safety trends and events.
Launch of evolved 
Sustainability Strategy
In June, Balfour Beatty launched its evolved 
Sustainability Strategy, extending its focus to six 
areas which encompass climate change, nature 
positive, resource efficiency, supply chain integrity, 
community engagement and employee diversity, 
equity, and inclusion. As part of the evolved strategy, 
the Company has brought forward its UK based 
target to create £3 billion of social value by 2025 
(previously 2030) as well as initiating new net zero 
targets as its understanding of the scale of the 
challenge has evolved. Following a process to 
stress test its targets with the Science Based 
Targets initiative (SBTi), the Group has revised its 
net zero target for Scope 1 and 2 emissions to 
2045, and Scope 3 to 2050, both originally set for 
2040. The targets, which are both stretching and 
realistic, have been validated by the SBTi and are 
underpinned by an industry‑leading, fully 
transparent UK carbon reduction plan. 
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

13
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
In 2024, the Group delivered £991 million 
(2023: £936 million) of social value, including 
spend with local suppliers and local businesses, 
and volunteering. The Group also achieved a small 
decrease in absolute carbon emissions and a 13% 
intensity reduction in Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse 
gas (GHG) emissions. 
Increased dividends and share 
buybacks in 2025
The Group’s capital allocation framework has been 
in place since 2021, facilitating the delivery of 
attractive shareholder returns, while ensuring the 
appropriate balance between investment in the 
business, and a strong capital position. Given the 
Group’s encouraging position, including its large 
order book, strong balance sheet and the depth of 
opportunities in its chosen markets, Balfour Beatty 
is confident of continuing to deliver significant 
future shareholder returns. As such, the Board is 
today recommending a final dividend of 8.7 
pence per share (2023: 8.0 pence), giving a total 
recommended dividend for the year of 12.5 pence 
per share (2023: 11.5 pence). Additionally, the 
Company intends to repurchase £125 million of 
shares during the 2025 phase of its multi-year 
share buyback programme, bringing the cumulative 
return to shareholders since the introduction in 
2021 of the multi-year capital allocation framework 
to over c. £940 million. 
The total cash return to shareholders in 2025 
(including the final 2024 dividend and 2025 
interim dividend) is therefore expected to 
be c.£188 million (2024: £161 million). 
Outlook
The Board expects an increase in PFO from its 
earnings-based businesses in 2025, with further 
growth in 2026. 
Infrastructure Investments is expected to 
continue to deliver attractive end-to-end returns 
from its recurring income, by divesting assets and 
making new investments in line with the Group’s 
capital allocation framework. For 2025, gains on 
investment disposals are expected in the range 
of £20 
-£30 million.
The Board expects net finance income of around 
£25 million for 2025 and for the effective tax rates 
in each of the three geographies to remain close 
to statutory rates, albeit with cash tax payments 
in the UK remaining below statutory levels in the 
medium term as losses are utilised. Average net 
cash in 2025 is expected to be roughly £800 million, 
with capital expenditure between £35 and £40 million 
and working capital remaining broadly flat. 
The Group’s long-term outlook remains positive, 
with the growth forecast in 2025 and 2026 being 
driven by strong visibility from its high-quality 
order book, alongside the further opportunities in 
the energy, transport and defence sectors in the 
UK and the Group’s chosen buildings sectors in 
the US. This gives the Board confidence in Balfour 
Beatty’s continued ability to deliver profitable 
managed growth and sustainable cash generation, 
and in turn significant ongoing shareholder returns.
Leo Quinn
Group Chief Executive
11 March 2025
The Diamond Award
This category celebrated individuals who have dedicated 
many years to Balfour Beatty or the wider industry. 
READ MORE ABOUT OUR ICON 
AWARDS EVENT ON p74
Above: Award presentation photo. (Left to right) Paul Raby, Group Human 
Resources Director, Kennedy Cheung, Director – Gammon, and Leo Quinn, 
Group Chief Executive.
Winner: Kevin Webber
Commercial Services Manager, 
Major Projects and Highways
Kevin joined the Company in 1988 
as a Trainee Quantity Surveyor. Since 
then he’s helped deliver flagship 
infrastructure projects and created 
an industry-leading upskilling 
programme for the commercial 
profession – the go-to person to 
support and guide our teams.
Winner: Kennedy Cheung
Director, Gammon
Kennedy joined as a Graduate Civil 
Engineer in 1978. Known for his 
innovative project management and 
his leadership in the industry, his 
reputation for groundbreaking 
advancements has seen him 
recognised by the ‘Hong Kong 
Engineering Wonders of the 
21st Century’ awards.
Above: Award presentation photo. (Left to right) Paul Raby, Group Human 
Resources Director, Kevin Webber, Commercial Services Manager – Major 
Projects and Highways, and Leo Quinn, Group Chief Executive.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

14
14
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
UK transport
The UK transport sector is expected to deliver significant growth as demand increases 
for infrastructure upgrades, sustainable transport solutions, and ongoing asset maintenance 
of ageing networks. Balfour Beatty is a trusted partner in advancing the UK’s transport 
network with extensive experience in delivering major UK transport projects, ongoing 
maintenance contracts, and infrastructure management. As a result, Balfour Beatty is 
well positioned to capitalise on opportunities to deliver new assets and refurbish existing 
transport infrastructure, help cities shift towards low-carbon transport networks, and 
provide essential maintenance services, which are crucial for the long-term performance 
of roads, railways, airports, and public spaces. 
£234bn
TRANSPORT SPENDING IN THE UK’S NATIONAL 
INFRASTRUCTURE PIPELINE (2023/24-2032/33)
2024 momentum
 
@ Awarded major road contract, A9 dualling in Scotland 
 
@ Early Contractor Involvement (ECI) activities at Lower Thames Crossing
 
@ Delivering highways maintenance contracts with Buckinghamshire, 
East Sussex and Lincolnshire County Councils
Well positioned 
in growth markets
Capitalising on high-growth markets where the Group has the 
capabilities and a proven track record to secure new opportunities.
UK energy transition and security
Balfour Beatty has been at the forefront of delivering some of the most complex 
energy schemes in the UK. The UK energy transition offers immense growth 
opportunities underpinned by the UK Government’s commitment to make Britain a 
‘clean energy superpower’, with £100 billion in spending planned over the next five 
years. Capital investment in energy infrastructure is expected to surge over the next 
three decades to support the transition to renewable-powered, electrified systems. 
Flagship initiatives such as Scottish and Southern Electricity Networks Accelerated 
Strategic Transmission Investment (ASTI) framework and the Sizewell C nuclear power 
station, demonstrate the scale of infrastructure required to modernise the grid and 
support low-carbon energy generation, whilst the £22 billion commitment to carbon 
capture and storage projects underscores the UK Government’s focus on the sector.
£19bn
AVERAGE ANNUAL POWER GENERATION AND 
GRID CAPITAL INVESTMENT (2022–2030)
Source: UK Energy Transition Outlook 2024, DNV; Analysis 
of the National Infrastructure and Construction Pipeline, 2024
2024 momentum
 
@ Awarded first phase of the Skye 132kV reinforcement project for Scottish 
and Southern Electricity Networks (SSEN) Transmission
 
@ Delivering Early Contractor Involvement (ECI) activities for Sizewell C with 
funding committed until April 2026
 
@ Selected as the preferred construction partner for Net Zero Teesside
MARKET REVIEW
1.
2.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Image: DWL Architects.
15
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
UK defence and security
The UK defence and security sector offers significant growth opportunities, driven 
by ongoing Government commitments to strengthen national security and modernise 
defence infrastructure. As geopolitical tensions continue to rise, the UK Government 
is targeting 2.5% defence spending as a share of GDP in 2030 to maintain its nuclear 
deterrent and expand, modernise and maintain its existing estate. The sector’s critical 
nature ensures long-term funding and stability, with increasing investment in military 
bases, training facilities and secure installations. Balfour Beatty has worked on a range 
of defence facilities and has expertise in delivering large-scale, high-value projects in 
highly regulated and secure environments which means it is well positioned to support 
this critical work.
US buildings
The US buildings sector presents a compelling growth opportunity driven by strong 
demand for commercial, industrial and institutional facilities. Economic expansion, 
population growth, urban development and the modernisation of ageing government 
building stock continue to fuel the need for office spaces, retail and hospitality 
centres, warehouses, manufacturing plants and healthcare, educational and 
government buildings. This sustained demand, combined with the scale and 
diversity of projects, makes the US buildings market a key opportunity for seeking 
long-term growth. Balfour Beatty’s track record across a wide range of sectors 
and large-scale projects, along with its established and expanding footprint, 
provides a robust foundation to deliver challenging, high-value buildings projects.
US$428bn
2029 BUILDING SPENDING IN OUR CHOSEN STATES
2.5% GDP
UK’S 2030 DEFENCE SPENDING TARGET
Source: Defending Britain: leading in a more dangerous world, 
HM Government; Dodge Construction Central
2024 momentum
 
@ Selected by Rolls-Royce Submarines Limited as the 
construction partner for their major expansion in Derby
 
@ Long track record of defence delivery; currently working 
on 10 military-related sites
2024 momentum
 
@ Notable awards include Maryland Avenue office to residential 
conversion in Washington DC, Durham public schools in North Carolina, 
Georgia State Capitol and Legislative Office Building, Little Elm High 
School in Texas, Sacramento International Airport Pedestrian Walkway 
in California, and several tenant improvement projects in the Northwest
KEY
1.   
Skye 132kV reinforcement 
project, Scotland.
2.   
A9 Dualling Contract, Scotland
3.   RAF Marham, Norfolk
4.   
Sacramento International 
Airport Pedestrian Walkway
3.
4.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
16
16
Market trends
The UK Construction and Support Services 
businesses capabilities and track record means 
it is well positioned to support the delivery of 
critical infrastructure necessary for the UK’s 
long-term priorities. 
Expanding energy infrastructure
The UK’s target to achieving net zero emissions 
by 2050 necessitates a significant increase in 
low-carbon energy projects. The UK Government 
is committed to supporting multi-billion pound 
projects in offshore wind, conventional nuclear, 
small modular reactors and carbon capture, utilisation, 
and storage (CCUS). Whilst the establishment of 
Great British Energy, and continued funding for 
Sizewell C, further underpins the UK Government’s 
commitment to transition the country into a clean 
energy superpower.
UK Construction 
and Support Services
Balfour Beatty awarded first phase of the Skye 
Reinforcement Project for SSEN Transmission
Balfour Beatty has been awarded the 
first phase of the £690 million Skye 132kV 
reinforcement project for Scottish and Southern 
Electricity Network (SSEN) Transmission. 
On completion, the project will ensure the 
supply of secure, clean electricity to thousands 
of homes and businesses across the Hebrides 
and West Highlands.
The detailed design and development phase, 
valued at £32 million, will see Balfour Beatty 
provide technical solutions for a new 137km, 
132kV double circuit overhead line between the 
existing Fort Augustus and Edinbane substations, 
as well as new sealing end compounds to link 
the overhead line to the underground electricity 
network, ultimately joining the Isle of Skye and 
Western Isles to mainland Scotland.
Due to the expansive and unique terrain, 
Balfour Beatty will engage its in-house 
Environmental and Sustainability team to 
consider ecological and environmental 
requirements, from peat management to 
wildlife translocation, contributing to SSEN 
Transmission’s biodiversity net gain targets.
In addition, the Company will work closely 
and collaboratively with local communities to 
minimise disruption wherever possible, including 
introducing a ‘Skye workers village’ to provide 
the construction workforce with dedicated 
site accommodation.
This latest award follows the Company’s 
appointment to SSEN Transmission’s Accelerated 
Strategic Transmission Investment (ASTI) framework 
in August 2023 for which it commenced 
detailed development and design in early 2024. 
Main construction work for the Isle of Skye 
Reinforcement Project is expected to begin in 
early 2025. At project peak, Balfour Beatty will 
employ 650 people including 32 apprenticeship 
and graduate positions as part of the 
Company’s commitment to The 5% Club.
Balfour Beatty is the UK’s leading construction and infrastructure 
provider, collaborating with its customers to develop cutting-edge 
solutions to meet the challenges of tomorrow. 
UK CONSTRUCTION SPENDING FORECAST TO 
GROW 5% PER YEAR
Construction spending, £bn, nominal
2024
432
544
2029
 Infrastructure
 Non-residential buildings
 Residential buildings
Source: IHS Markit
+5%/yr
MARKET REVIEW CONTINUED
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

17
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Investment to modernise 
the UK’s electricity grid
Facilitating the integration of renewable energy 
sources necessitates expansion and upgrading of 
the current electricity grid, with an estimated 
£60 billion of investment in network infrastructure 
required by 2030. This includes projects such 
as SSEN’s Accelerated Strategic Transmission 
Investment (ASTI) framework, SP Energy Networks’ 
Strategic Agreement for Transmission Overhead 
Line Works and National Grid’s RIIO-T2 projects, 
which bring to market a strong pipeline of 
opportunities for Balfour Beatty.
Enhancing and future-proofing 
the Strategic Road Network
The Government’s Road Investment Strategy 3 
(RIS3, 2025–30) is expected to prioritise maintaining 
and improving the Strategic Road Network (SRN), 
reducing congestion, advancing environmental 
goals and integrating modern technologies. While 
the focus may shift toward smaller maintenance 
projects, deferred RIS2 schemes, such as the 
Lower Thames Crossing, ensure continued 
opportunities for major infrastructure 
developments as well. 
Balfour Beatty selected by Rolls-Royce as construction 
partner for MOD and AUKUS expansion work in Derby
In 2024, Balfour Beatty was selected by 
Rolls‑Royce as its non‑fissile construction 
partner to help deliver the expansion of their 
site in Raynesway, Derby.
Rolls‑Royce is currently supporting the existing 
Astute and Dreadnought boat build programmes 
through the delivery of reactor plant and associated 
components. Additionally, it provides frontline 
support across the world for reactor plant 
equipment from its Operations Centre in 
Derby and supports the submarines when in 
the Barrow‑in‑Furness shipyard and the naval 
bases at Devonport and Faslane.
Rolls‑Royce will be doubling the size of their 
Raynesway site, after a need to meet the 
growth in demand from the Royal Navy and 
following last year’s AUKUS announcement.
The increase in demand will see Balfour Beatty 
build new manufacturing and office facilities as 
well as the adjoining site infrastructure.
The increase in work from the Ministry of 
Defence (MOD) will create 1,170 skilled roles 
at Rolls‑Royce, across a range of disciplines 
including manufacturing and engineering.
WSP
, the leading multi‑disciplinary professional 
services consultancy, has been selected as 
Rolls-Royce’s non‑fissile design partner. Balfour 
Beatty and WSP will work closely over the next 
decade to bring the Raynesway site 
expansion plans to life. 
 UK energy transition and security
 UK transport
 UK defence and security
 US buildings
Balfour Beatty’s growth markets
Rising demand for essential 
local road maintenance 
The UK faces a local road maintenance backlog 
of between £7
.6 billion and £15.6 billion. Despite 
central funding allocations, such as the pothole 
fund and highways maintenance block, and the 
£8.3 billion earmarked for maintenance allocated 
under the Network North Plan for the 2023/24 to 
2033/34 period, local authorities still report funding 
gaps amid rising maintenance cost and increasing 
repair needs. This presents an opportunity to 
deliver cost-effective maintenance solutions and 
technology-driven infrastructure management.
Sustained rail investment
Under Control Period 7 (2024–29), £45 billion 
is allocated to Network Rail for infrastructure 
upgrades, including track renewals, bridge 
replacements, station refurbishments, and 
electrification. HS2 continues with Government 
funding for phase one and tunnelling to Central 
London. The Government is investing in 
electrification to phase out diesel-only trains by 
2040, with projects like the TransPennine route 
upgrade and Midland Main Line electrification 
involving major work, including overhead line 
installation and signalling upgrades. 
Prioritised defence 
and security spending
Amid rising geopolitical tensions, the Government 
has reaffirmed its commitment to maintaining a 
nuclear deterrent and advancing the development 
of a new class of submarine, the SSN-AUKUS, 
necessitating substantial infrastructure investment. 
Additionally, there is a clear acknowledgement of 
the need to modernise other defence infrastructure 
to strengthen the UK’s military capabilities, which 
is driving a significant pipeline of opportunities.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
18
18
Market trends
Construction spending in our target states is 
projected to surpass the national average, 
driving growth for our business amid favourable 
broader trends.
Demographics spur demand 
for education facilities
School districts continue to focus on building and 
renovating K‑12 facilities to tackle overcrowding 
and ageing infrastructure, while higher education 
prioritises student accommodation and teaching 
facilities. In Balfour Beatty’s chosen states, 
education construction is expected to reach 
US$65 billion by 2029.
Steady pipeline of government 
building modernisation projects
A steady pipeline of projects is expected to drive 
the modernisation, repair, and renovation of 
ageing, underfunded government buildings stock 
to meet current needs. For example, the General 
Accountability Office (GAO) reports that 903 
federal buildings require repairs and alterations, 
with 44 needing urgent attention. Consequently, 
the government buildings segment in Balfour 
Beatty’s target states is projected to grow at 
11% per annum from 2024 to 2029.
Our chosen states
US Construction
Balfour Beatty builds the structures and infrastructure that enhance 
how people live, work, learn and play in specific, high-growth regions.
CONSTRUCTION SPENDING IN OUR 
CHOSEN STATES FORECAST TO GROW 7% 
PER YEAR
Construction spending, US$bn, nominal
2024
612
861
2029
 Infrastructure
 Non-residential buildings
 Residential buildings
Source: Dodge Construction Central
+7%/yr
Why these areas
 
@ Strong growth in the Mid-Atlantic 
and Carolinas
 
@ Diversification potential in the Southeast
 
@ Demographic-driven projects in Texas
 
@ Leading education builder in California
 
@ Prominent data centre presence in 
the Northwest
Georgia Legislative 
Office Building
Working in partnership with Garbutt Construction 
and SG Contracting, Balfour Beatty began the 
construction on the Georgia Legislative Office 
Building in Atlanta. 
The 350,000 square-foot facility is designed 
to meet the needs of the General Assembly. 
The eight-storey building will house all 
legislative offices and supporting functions, 
including office suites for legislators, meeting 
and committee rooms, and dedicated areas 
for the public, press and lobbyists.
This is one of three significant initiatives 
currently underway by the team for the 
Georgia State Financing and Investment 
Commission, including major renovations 
to the Capitol building. These projects 
demonstrate the team’s focus on delivering 
impactful solutions for Georgia’s evolving 
infrastructure needs.
“We are truly honoured to be part of this 
transformative project for the State of 
Georgia. It’s an incredible opportunity for our 
team to contribute to a landmark development 
that will serve as a cornerstone for the state’s 
legislative operations for generations to come,
” 
says Scott Skidelsky, President of the 
Southeast geography. 
MARKET REVIEW CONTINUED
Photo credit: rendering courtesy of Nelson Worldwide.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

19
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Resilient hospitality and 
leisure pipeline
The US hotel construction pipeline continues to 
expand, with projects up 11% and rooms up 6% 
year‑on‑year. Dallas, Atlanta, Phoenix, and Austin 
rank among the top five US cities for pipeline 
activity, as the sector is set to reach US$14 billion 
in 2029 in Balfour Beatty’s chosen states. Despite 
low consumer sentiment, strong consumer 
spending fuels investment in convention centres, 
stadiums, arenas, and theme parks, with 
public‑private partnerships and infrastructure 
expansion driving the most promising projects.
Office recovery and booming 
data centre demand
Office construction spending in Balfour Beatty’s 
target states is expected to reach US$40 billion 
by 2029, driven by demand for hybrid workspaces, 
rising return‑to‑office trends, and reversal in 
extremely high vacancy rates. Data centre 
construction will continue to grow at pace, with 
Amazon, Meta, Google, and Microsoft set to 
invest US$178 billion in 2025, fuelled by surging 
cloud adoption and AI infrastructure demand.
Sacramento International Airport’s new pedestrian walkway
In August 2024, Balfour Beatty began construction 
activities to deliver the Sacramento International 
Airport Pedestrian Walkway project. 
The Pedestrian 
Walkway project is part of SMForward, a $1
.3 billion 
capital improvement programme to expand the 
Sacramento International Airport (SMF) to 
accommodate future anticipated demand. 
Once complete, the new walkway will support 
the airport’s traveller growth well into the future 
by connecting SMF’s Terminal B to Concourse B 
via a sky bridge, providing passengers with the 
ability to walk or ride the airport’s existing 
automated people mover.
The project team will deliver a quarter-mile 
walkway featuring 1,800 tonnes of steel, 3,425 
cubic yards of concrete, four moving walkways, 
four escalators and three elevators along a 
panoramic corridor.
As the first undertaking of the airport’s expansion 
programme, the Pedestrian Walkway project is 
the initial step in leveraging transformative 
partnerships and creative financing solutions 
to deliver the future of SMF
. Throughout the 
programme’s projected duration, 800 jobs will 
be created in the first four years alone, contributing 
to economic growth opportunities for local 
businesses and further development in 
the community. 
Balfour Beatty has more than 75 years of 
extensive aviation experience in delivering 
complex and recognisable airport projects 
across the US. The Company specialises in 
building landside and airside facilities and 
has worked with clients including Los Angeles 
World Airports, Raleigh-Durham International 
Airport, Jacksonville International Airport and 
Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport.
The project team is leveraging lean construction 
methods, innovation and technology, including 
live estimating, Building Information Modelling, 
OpenSpace and offsite prefabrication to deliver 
SMF’s Pedestrian Walkway. The project is 
scheduled for completion in 2026.
Balfour Beatty is truly honoured to 
be the selected building partner on 
the pedestrian walkway. Sacramento 
International Airport is our local 
airport, so we take great pride in 
bringing this project in for a nice 
smooth landing and turning it over 
to the community.”
Kyle Frandsen
Vice President, Sacramento, 
Balfour Beatty US Buildings
Stable demand for 
multifamily housing
Higher financing and maintenance costs and slow 
rental growth has depressed multifamily housing 
activity in recent years, but a combination of 
continued job growth, elevated mortgage rates, 
and rising house prices, continues to sustain 
demand. Such strong demand dynamics in 
Balfour Beatty’s chosen states is expected to 
see multifamily activity outperform the national 
outlook, with 16% annual construction spending 
growth projected from 2024 to 2029.
Economic growth maintains 
ongoing transport investment
Continued US economic expansion and a return 
to pre-pandemic travel patterns are expected to 
sustain demand for new and upgraded transport 
infrastructure. Investment in road and airport 
construction will focus on expanding capacity 
and modernising facilities to support steadily 
increasing traffic and passenger volumes. This 
rising demand is driving major projects, including 
the I-35 Capital Express Central project and the 
SMForward initiative at Sacramento International 
Airport, which aims to expand the airport in 
anticipation of future passenger growth.
 UK Energy transition and security
 UK transport
 UK defence and security
 US buildings
Balfour Beatty’s growth markets
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
20
20
Gammon
For over 65 years, Gammon, Balfour Beatty’s joint venture with Jardine Matheson, 
has forged a reputation for delivering high-quality projects throughout Asia.
HONG KONG CONSTRUCTION SPENDING FORECAST TO GROW 5% PER ANNUM
Construction spending, HK$bn, nominal
Hong Kong
Northern Metropolis
The HK$224 million Northern Metropolis project aims to turn 30,000 
hectares of land into a housing and economic powerhouse, with key 
projects including the development of the San Tin Technopole, a new 
government building in Kwu Tung North, the new Huanggang Port 
building and the North District hospital expansion.
Transport infrastructure extension
The Major Transport Infrastructure Development Blueprint lays the 
foundation for extensive expansion of Hong Kong’s existing transportation 
network, with the railway network set to increase from 270km to nearly 
390km and major roads from 260km to nearly 380km.
Enhanced aviation investment
The Airport Authority Hong Kong expanded its Airport City blueprint, 
more than doubling the scale of development. New projects include an 
ecosystem for the art industry, AsiaWorld-Expo Phase 2 development, 
a marina with ancillary facilities and a fresh food market.
SINGAPORE CONSTRUCTION SPENDING FORECAST TO GROW 4% PER ANNUM
Construction spending, HK$bn, nominal
Singapore
Rail and aviation expansion
Phase 2 of the Cross Island Line will see the construction of six stations 
from Turf City to Jurong Lake District. The Changi East airport development, 
spanning 1,080 hectares, includes the new Terminal 5 project, a three-runway 
system, tunnel and underground systems construction and the Changi 
East Industrial Zone.
Green Data Centre Roadmap
Singapore’s Infocomm Media Development Authority (IMDA) has 
launched a Green Data Centre (DC) Roadmap in May 2024 that charts 
a sustainable pathway for the continued growth of DCs in Singapore. 
The roadmap is aimed to support the country’s AI and compute 
developments in the digital economy. 
Hospitality development
The Resorts World Sentosa expansion encompasses the construction of 
two new hotels, enlargement of the Singapore Oceanarium, the addition 
of Universal Studio’s Minion Land, three levels of retail and dining called 
The Forum and renovations of three existing hotels.
2024
240
302
2029
+5%/yr
2024
352
435
2029
+4%/yr
MARKET REVIEW CONTINUED
Gammon enables 
three‑runway system 
launch at Hong Kong 
International Airport 
The official inauguration of the three-runway 
system at Hong Kong International Airport in 
November 2024 further strengthens Hong 
Kong’s position as a major international 
aviation hub. 
Gammon has contributed significantly to 
this key milestone through delivering the key 
tunnel structure of the Automated People 
Mover, Baggage Handling System and 
Terminal 2 Expansion Works projects, including 
the tunnel beneath the runway and taxiways, 
essential infrastructure for air traffic control, 
and viaduct and road systems. 
It also completed the façade and roof works 
of the Terminal 2 building, all integral parts 
of the Airport Authority Hong Kong’s 
Master Programme. 
Market trends
Gammon operates within markets that are projected to continue to grow over the next decade, whilst continuing to explore new opportunities.
 Infrastructure
 Non-residential buildings
 Residential buildings
 Infrastructure
 Non-residential buildings
 Residential buildings
Source: IHS Markit
Source: IHS Markit
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

21
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
SHARE OF 

PORTFOLIO VALUE
 
UK roads
13%
 
UK student 
accommodation
11%
 UK healthcare 
11%
 
UK energy transition
5%
 
UK other
2%
 
US military housing
48%
 
US student 
accommodation
5%
 
US residential
5%
New investments
 
@
296-unit multifamily housing project in 
New Jersey (Philadelphia metropolitan 
statistical area)
 
@
564-bed purpose-built student housing 
asset in Denton, Texas
Disposals
 
@
Sell-down of 2,540 University of Texas 
(Dallas) student housing project to a 
5% shareholding
Student accommodation
 
@
Construction underway for student housing 
projects at The University of Sussex in 
the UK and William & Mary in the US
 
@
Development contract executed for new 
1,070-bed student accommodation at 
University of Texas (Austin)
New military homes
 
@
New Government funding at Fort 
Leonard Wood and Fort Eisenhower 
t build new houses
 
@
Potential ground lease extension at Fort 
Carson to fund faster redevelopment
Energy upgrades
 
@
Delivered green energy generation 
and efficiency solutions to multiple 
military bases
First UK EV installations
 
@
Urban Fox electric vehicle chargers 
installed in Dundee and across the 
Balfour Beatty estate
US P3 
 
@
Los Angeles International Airport, Automated 
People Mover construction progress
Financing critical infrastructure
 
@
M25 design, build, finance and 
operate contract
Infrastructure Investments
Balfour Beatty Investments is recognised as a leader in public-private 
partnerships and other developments in the UK and US.
An actively managed portfolio investing in the growth 
and enhancement of public and private infrastructure.
Investment focus
Demand for student accommodation 
remains strong for both 
conventional and off-campus 
student housing projects.
As the UK’s energy mix transitions 
to more renewable sources, the 
Group continues to evaluate these 
changes for both investment and 
construction opportunities.
Growth in EV adoption 
provides opportunities for the 
Group in the residential charger 
deployment market.
The Group continues to develop 
and maintain a large network of 
privatised military housing facilities 
across the US.
STUDENT ACCOMMODATION
NASCENT ENERGY TRANSITION
EV CHARGING INFRASTRUCTURE
MILITARY HOUSING
£1.3bn*
* Directors’ valuation as at 31 December 2024.
University of Sussex, 
West Slope Residences.
Fort Bliss Military Housing, 
Texas.
Urban Fox UEone retractable 
EV charger.
US multifamily accommodation 
continues to come to market, 
providing opportunity to 
invest in the regeneration of 
these properties.
MULTIFAMILY HOUSING
Landings at Lake Gray, 
Jacksonville.
Humber Gateway 
OFTO, UK.
Legislation allowing public-private 
partnership (P3) projects has passed 
in 42 states, creating opportunities 
in courthouse, school, government 
building and transport projects.
PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP PROJECTS
Automated People Mover, Los Angeles 
International Airport.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

22
22
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Digital and AI 
advancements
By capitalising on our investment in a central data 
lake – a secure repository containing billions of 
data points from across Balfour Beatty – we are 
swiftly integrating new AI and digital technologies. 
This is revolutionising how we manage and deliver 
projects. We’re also empowering our workforce 
with personal AI assistants to streamline repetitive 
tasks, allowing them to focus on more complex, 
high-value work.
Today, over 90% of our UK projects and contracts 
leverage our digital toolkit to enhance efficiency 
and compliance. Tasks such as progressive 
assurance, checklists and permits are now digital, 
supporting our Zero Harm and Right First Time 
focus by capturing safety and quality observations 
through our Observations App. In 2024, over 
470,000 observations and examples of good 
practice were submitted across the Group – 
an increase of 70,000 compared to the previous 
year. These observations guide interventions that 
ensure safety and meet quality standards for 
our customers.
We have also continued to roll out new hardware 
and technology. Notably, we’ve mandated the 
use of human form recognition cameras on 
various heavy plant machinery in the UK, 
including excavators, dumpers, and wheeled 
loaders. These cameras alert operators to nearby 
personnel, reducing the risk of accidents. Incident 
data is captured on a central dashboard, enabling 
us to track trends and address safety concerns 
more effectively.
470,000
OBSERVATIONS 
RAISED IN 2024
90%
OF UK PROJECTS 
USE DIGITAL TOOLS 
ABOVE 
Jay Saddington, Survey and Product 
Communications Support with Balfour 
Beatty’s robotic dog ‘Spot’ which documents 
construction progress using autonomous 
3D data capture on site.
Our digital-first approach is improving safety, 
productivity and assurance.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

23
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Digital Dynamo 
Award
This category celebrated an individual 
who embraces technology to redefine 
how we do business.
Winner: George McArthur
Concrete Technical Manager, HS2 Major Projects 
George has demonstrated exceptional leadership and 
innovation in revolutionising fresh concrete quality control 
through the implementation of in-transit digital monitoring. 
His initiative has not only eliminated the need for manual 
testing at concrete pours, but also significantly reduced 
costs and improved efficiency across a large-scale project.
Above: Award presentation photo. (Left to right) Jon Ozanne, Chief 
Information Officer, George McArthur, Concrete Technical Manager 
– HS2 Major Projects, and Clare Barclay – Microsoft CEO, UK.
ABOVE
At Balfour Beatty, we use drones to provide real-time data 
and high-resolution aerial imagery for site inspections, 
surveying and progress tracking.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR ICON 
AWARDS EVENT ON p74
AI collaboration for 
enhanced outcomes
Our in-house AI assistant, StoaOne, is now 
supporting 1,500 UK-based employees by 
automating mundane tasks. This allows our 
experts to dedicate more time to their core work. 
For example, on the Midlands Metropolitan 
University Hospital project, StoaOne categorised 
and prioritised over tens of thousands of data 
points, playing a crucial role in the successful 
handover of the 770-bed hospital.
In addition to developing our proprietary AI tools, 
we are adopting market-leading solutions. In our 
US Balfour Beatty Communities business, 
AI-powered software now generates accurate 
1D and 3D as-built drawings from photographs, 
streamlining project closeout. In the UK, AI is 
being used to assess site supervisors’ competencies 
before they join our teams, while our work winning 
teams use AI tools to enhance processes and 
improve bid submissions.
To accelerate our AI adoption, in November 2024, 
we hosted ‘The Big AI Challenge’ hackathon with 
70 experts from Balfour Beatty and Microsoft. 
The event explored how we could leverage data 
and AI to bring six innovative ideas, submitted 
through our My Contribution programme, to life. 
The solutions developed during the event include 
automating the generation of inspection and test 
plans to prevent costly rework and clustering 
highways repairs to improve productivity by 
reducing the time spent travelling between 
each repair, are now being refined for 
implementation in 2025. 
FIND OUT MORE ABOUT THE 
BIG AI CHALLENGE ON p78
Our recent ‘Big AI 
Challenge’ brought 
together some of the 
greatest minds from 
across Balfour Beatty 
and Microsoft to 
generate solutions to 
some of our biggest 
business opportunities.” 
Jon Ozanne,
Chief Information Officer, Balfour Beatty 
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

24
24
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
OUR STRATEGY: BUILD TO LAST
Delivering Build to Last
Build to Last is Balfour Beatty’s strategy for continuous 
improvement. It is the day-to-day guide we use to 
uphold our purpose and underpins everything we do.
Our strategy
Our strategy, Build to Last, is fundamental to how we are 
building a market-leading Balfour Beatty for the next 100 years. 
It is our platform for sustainable growth, productivity, inclusive 
talent – all ensuring the best capability to deliver on our 
promises and our enduring commitment to Zero Harm.
Our KPIs
Our Build to Last strategy is measured against our five values – 
Lean, Expert, Trusted, Safe and Sustainable.
We create value for our customers 
and drive continuous improvement
We are thoughtful and agile, continuously challenging 
our ways of working to improve health and safety and 
productivity, eliminate waste and enhance quality to make 
us more competitive.
NET CASH £m
excluding non-recourse borrowings 
and lease liabilities
2024:
£943m
UNDERLYING PROFIT/(LOSS) 
FROM CONTINUING 
OPERATIONS £m
2024:
£248m
p86
Our highly skilled colleagues 
and partners set us apart
Our people are leaders. We’re the experts of today and inspire 
the leaders of tomorrow. We invest in our colleagues, building 
their skills and knowledge, to develop a passionate, world-class 
workforce drawn from all parts of our society.
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 
INDEX %

2024:
84%
p68
Lean
Expert
More information
Find out how our strategy is supported by the current 
market on pages 14 to 21. For the risk appetite in the 
context of the Company values see page 92.
815
22
842
23
943
24
512
19
337
18
335
17
163
173
15 16
581
20
790
21
22 23 24
19
18
17
16
20 21
279
228
248
221
205
196
69
51
197
(74)
15
80
76
65
60
58
60
66
75
23
24
22
19
18
17
16
15
20
21
81
84
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

25
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
We deliver on our promises 
and we do the right thing
We build trust every day by delivering on our promises, 
always. We’re accountable for our decisions and work 
with the upmost integrity to ensure we’re making the 
right choices.
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION 
AVERAGE %

2024:
96%
p46
We make safety personal
Safety is our licence to operate. Nothing is more important 
than the health, safety and wellbeing of our colleagues 
and the communities we serve. We are unrelenting and 
uncompromising in our commitment to achieving Zero Harm.
LOST TIME INJURY RATE (LTIR)
excluding international joint ventures

2024:
0.09 LTIR
p40
We act responsibly to protect and 
enhance our planet and society
We leave a positive legacy for the people we work with, 
the communities we work in, and the world in which we 
operate. We want to enhance our impact on the environment, 
working with our supply chain partners, customers and 
communities to ensure our choices are sustainable.
TOTAL SCOPE 1 AND 2 EMISSIONS 
(tCO2e) 000s

2024:
144 tCO2e 000s
p48
Safe
Sustainable
Trusted
95
96
0.11
0.09
145
144
95
96
97
94
91
82
94
95
0.15
0.19
0.16
0.18
0.24
0.24
0.16
0.14
147
138
131
155
191
196
122
124
23
24
24
23
23
24
22
22
22
19
19
19
18
18
18
17
17
17
16
15
16
15
16
15
20
20
20
21
21
21
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
26
26
STAKEHOLDER VALUE
Sharing the 
value we create
In striving to achieve its purpose of Building New Futures, Balfour 
Beatty touches the lives of millions of people around the world. 
Working with multiple stakeholders across the industry and beyond, 
the Group continues to innovate and lead the market through driving 
change, shaping the debate and inspiring a new generation of talent 
to be the change-makers of tomorrow. 
About our stakeholders
From shareholders and employees to 
customers, supply chain partners and the 
communities we operate in, each stakeholder 
group holds a vested interest in Balfour 
Beatty’s activities, performance or success. 
Their support, feedback and collaboration 
are vital for driving business growth and 
profitability but also for fostering trust and 
sustainability and building a positive 
lasting legacy. 
 
@ As part of the Group’s annual shareholder 
engagement plan, Charles Allen, Lord Allen of 
Kensington, CBE, Non-executive Group Chair 
met with a number of the top 10 shareholders. 
In addition, management also saw international 
shareholders with Group Chief Executive Leo 
Quinn meeting investors in Hong Kong, and 
Chief Financial Officer Phil Harrison meeting 
investors in New York. 
Creating value: 
Balfour Beatty has established the strongest 
balance sheet in its sector and from this position 
of strength, continues to deliver on its multi-year 
capital allocation framework, announced in 2021. 
This provides a balanced approach between the 
investment needs of the business, regular 
dividend payments and additional returns to 
shareholders. Balfour Beatty intends to return 
c.£188 million in 2025 through a combination of 
dividends and share buybacks, which will bring 
the cumulative return to shareholders since the 
introduction in 2021 of the multi-year capital 
allocation framework to over £940 million.
Expanding our shareholder 
engagement reach 
Balfour Beatty’s 2024 half year results 
and 2023 full year results announcements 
generated 2,000 virtual views, with the 
announcements accessed over 25,000 
times in 2024. Headlines from full and half 
year results are shared in an engaging way 
on our corporate social media channels and 
from our Group Chief Executive, Leo Quinn’s 
LinkedIn profile. 
In 2024, Leo’s LinkedIn posts received 
record engagement levels; in March 2024, 
his post was seen by 33,000 people and 
in August 2024, his post was seen by 
255,732 people.
SCAN OR CLICK TO WATCH 
LEO’S BEHIND THE SCENES VIDEO 
ON BALFOUR BEATTY’S 2024 
HALF YEAR RESULTS
83
MEETINGS HELD IN 2024
33,000
VIEWS OF LEO’S HALF YEAR RESULTS 
LINKEDIN POST 
Shareholders 
Our shareholders, as owners of the 
Company, are a critical stakeholder 
for the Group.
2024 engagement examples:
 
@ Throughout 2024, the Company held 83 meetings 
with shareholders and investors. The Group also 
attended eight investor conferences during 
2024, hosted by London-based investment 
banks, and further investor roadshows were 
held in Jersey, Edinburgh, Boston and Montreal. 
For details on how the Board engages with 
investors see pages 128 and 131.
 
@ To keep shareholders up to date with Company 
news including financial information, we share 
regular updates via regulatory announcements, 
webcasts and presentations.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

27
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Customers 
Collaborative and long-term mutually 
beneficial relationships with our 
customers are the foundation of 
our success.
2024 engagement examples:
 
@ In October 2024 and November 2024, we 
hosted the first of our ministerial roundtables 
with the Labour Government, focusing on 
nuclear power with Nuclear Minister, Lord Hunt, 
and offshore wind, with key speaker, Michael 
Shanks MP
, Parliamentary Under-Secretary of 
State for Energy and Net Zero. These roundtables 
serve as a platform to address the challenges 
hindering infrastructure delivery, bringing together 
decision-makers, key industry leaders, customers 
and potential customers to shape the agenda 
and reinforce Balfour Beatty’s role as a key player 
in this space.
 
@ As an industry leader, we know that freely 
sharing best practice is the best way to help 
the industry develop and evolve. In 2024, we 
continued with our ‘five-minute reads’ focusing 
on ‘fuelling the energy transition: tackling the 
skills gap’. Balfour Beatty HR Director, Maxine 
Wheldon, shared her views on how the industry 
can tackle the skills gap to deliver vital infrastructure 
that supports secure, affordable, decarbonised 
energy by 2050. 
 
@ As construction partner appointed by Rolls-Royce 
Submarines for their non-fissile infrastructure 
programme, we are working in collaboration 
with Rolls-Royce and the Design Partner WSP
, 
co-located in a shared office, to jointly develop 
the programme masterplan and project designs. 
This early contractor involvement and collaboration 
between partners is essential to overcome the 
significant challenges associated with delivering 
such a large complex programme of work 
96%
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION SCORE
Employees
T
alented and engaged employees committed to upholding our values 
enable us to deliver on our Build to Last strategy ensuring we win, and 
expertly deliver, the best and most exciting projects whilst continuing 
to build a great place to work.
2024 engagement examples: 
 
@ My Contribution (MyC) is our engagement 
programme for employee-led business change, 
giving every colleague a voice and the empowerment 
to take personal action to build a better company, 
by sharing their ideas for improvement and 
collaborating with colleagues to make them 
happen. In 2024 colleagues from across the 
UK and the US shared over 2,000 MyC ideas, 
with those delivered generating an estimated 
£3.2 million of cash, £3.2 million of cost savings, 
53,800 hours of time saved, as well as 270 
ideas delivered in the Better Place to Work 
category that have helped us improve inclusivity, 
health and wellbeing, safety, and create a more 
sustainable business. 
 
@ Live events and conferences form a key 
approach for delivering impactful employee 
engagement across the Group. In 2024, the 
Group took a new approach to recognising and 
engaging employees. On 25 September Balfour 
Beatty held its inaugural Icon Awards at the 
V&A Museum in London. Bringing together 
almost 400 colleagues from across the UK, 
US and Hong Kong, the evening celebrated the 
very best of the Group, proving an endorsement 
of the Group’s leading place in the industry, the 
strength of the brand and the power of the culture. 
 
@ In November, the Group took an innovative 
approach to Strategic Business Unit (SBU)
conferences. With a series of back-to-back 
leadership events at a single venue in Birmingham. 
The aim was to deliver high-impact and high-quality 
events, through a more efficient and sustainable 
approach, drawing inspiration from the concept 
of ‘modern methods of construction’. Over five 
days, three events were held hosting a combined 
681 delegates, presented by 96 speakers. This 
new, lean approach provided a high-impact, 
lower-cost, more effective way to update and 
engage employees across the business.
 
@ In February, Charles Allen, Lord Allen of Kensington 
CBE, Non-executive Group Chair of Balfour Beatty, 
spent time with the Co-Chairs of the five UK 
Affinity Networks, who work to make a positive 
difference to the Company’s workplace processes, 
and practices. The session afforded him the 
chance to hear first hand why the Co-Chairs 
have stepped up to get involved, and some 
examples of their efforts including the supply 
of sanitary products being mandated across all 
offices and sites.
Creating value: 
The key metric for our Expert value is employee 
engagement. In 2024, our Group employee 
engagement score was the highest since 2017
, 
rising for the seventh year in a row to 84%, 
up from 81% in 2023 and 11% higher than 
the industry average. 
ABOVE
Neil Dalton, Work Winning Director – Defence, Balfour 
Beatty signing the Armed Forces Covenant with 
Major General Andy Sturrock, Director of Strategy 
and Plans, Defence Infrastructure Organisation.
  
FOR DETAILS ON HOW THE BOARD 
ENGAGES WITH EMPLOYEES SEE 
PAGES 127 TO 128
SCAN TO WATCH OUR VIDEO 
ON THE RE-SIGNING OF THE 
ARMED FORCES COVENANT
whilst maintaining safe operation of the existing 
estate. Our collaborative approach and team 
behaviours were key components of the 
selection process that led to our appointment.
Creating value: 
The key metric for our Trusted value is customer 
satisfaction. In 2024, over 1,800 customer satisfaction 
reviews were carried out with the Group’s customer 
satisfaction score standing at 96%.
84%
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT SCORE
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
28
28
STAKEHOLDER VALUE CONTINUED
Supply chain and strategic partners 
The thousands of supply chain partners we work with across the 
Group play an instrumental role in our success and in improving 
and enhancing best practice across our industry. 
ABOVE
The Founder’s Pledge graduation ceremony.
It’s fantastic to 
celebrate the 
achievements of 
the 12 apprentices 
and the success of 
the Founder’s Pledge. 
Mentoring programmes 
like this are vital to 
help apprentices.” 
The Rt Hon Baroness Jacqui Smith
Minister for Skills
98%
OF INVOICES PAID WITHIN 
60 DAYS (86% IN 2019)
2024 engagement examples:
 
@ In the UK, Leo Quinn, Group Chief Executive, 
announced his Founder’s Pledge as part of 
The 5% Club’s 10-year anniversary in 2023. 
12 apprentices from across the UK business 
and its supply chain secured the coveted 
Founder’s Pledge award. Leo personally gifted 
£10,000 to support the chosen apprentices and 
help address the troubling statistics that nearly 
half of apprentices in the UK fail to complete 
their training due to a lack of wellbeing and 
financial support. The year-long programme was 
closed out in December 2024 with a graduation 
ceremony hosted by Leo and the Rt Hon 
Baroness Jacqui Smith, the Minister for Skills, 
and the supply chain companies’ CEOs and 
their mentees. Patrick Flannery, Managing 
Director of Flannery Plant Hire, said: “It was 
incredibly rewarding to be part of the Founder’s 
Pledge, mentoring and spending time with my 
mentee Chloe throughout her journey. The 
experience has provided me with valuable 
insights into the challenges apprentices face 
and has inspired us as a business to look into 
how we can provide them with the support they 
need to ultimately maximise completion rates.
” 
Rupert Forster, a Balfour Beatty apprentice 
working at Hinkley Point C, who was mentored 
by Leo, said: “Being part of this mentorship 
programme hasn’t just been about gaining skills 
and advice – it’s about learning how to practically 
navigate the challenges that come with early 
career development, and how to persevere 
through them”
. 
 
@ Balfour Beatty regularly acts as a convener of 
thought leaders, collaborating relentlessly for 
the benefit of its customers. In July, an early 
careers team within Balfour Beatty’s Strategic 
Design Partnership – established in 2017 to 
redefine the relationship between contractor 
and designer – came together for a hackathon 
tackling the topic of carbon reduction in the 
industry. Also in July, Balfour Beatty and 
Microsoft joined together for ‘The Big AI 
Hackathon’. Testing out six ideas generated 
from My Contribution, the 70-strong team 
worked for seven hours armed with its 
knowledge and competitive spirit to pursue 
prototypes and prizes. 
 
@ Balfour Beatty is a founder, gold member and 
board member of the Supply Chain Sustainability 
School. We support our suppliers and subcontractors 
to become active members of the School, and 
to demonstrate improvement through regular 
self-assessment and work towards a level of 
accreditation as a demonstration of competence. 
In 2024, we generated £1,035,580 of partner 
value through a variety of activities delivered 
through the school including workshops. 
Creating value: 
Ensuring cash reaches our supply chain partners 
quickly for work carried out remains a priority. 
Balfour Beatty is committed to paying all supply 
chain partners on time and to mutually agreed 
terms. We continually invest in our processes 
and procedures to improve our payment 
performance and enhance accuracy and 
transparency through increased automation 
and efficient exception management.
We exceed the UK’s Government Procurement 
Policy Notice, which is applicable to newly advertised 
central government procurements and frameworks 
exceeding £5 million annually. The policy maintains 
the obligation for bidders to demonstrate they pay 
95% of invoices within 60 days and to settle all 
invoices within an average of 55 days. 
In the last six months of 2024, we improved our 
performance with invoices paid within 60 days 
rising from 97% in the first six months of 2024 
to 98%, and the average days to pay improving 
to 33 days.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

29
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Governments 
Governments set the policy and 
legislative context in which we 
operate and are also valued customers 
across our chosen geographies.
2024 engagement examples:
 
@ In December 2024, we supported The Institute 
for Government by publishing a report titled 
‘Devolution and Urban Regeneration: How 
Can Metro Mayors Transform England’s Towns 
and Cities?’ and hosted a research roundtable 
attended by around 20 representatives from 
combined authorities and development 
corporations. This initiative is part of Balfour 
Beatty’s broader efforts to strengthen 
relationships with combined authorities.
Creating value: 
In June 2024, as the UK entered the second week 
of the UK general election campaign trail, 12 Tier 
One UK infrastructure and construction contractors 
and consultants published their ‘Blueprint for 
Growth’. The work, orchestrated by Balfour Beatty, 
shared 12 recommendations that the future 
government should implement to effectively 
boost the UK’s economic growth and productivity. 
The document represented a notable 
collective commitment from the UK infrastructure 
and construction industry to collaborate with 
policymakers, industry stakeholders and Government 
agencies to help develop the 12 recommendations 
and realise the shared vision of a thriving infrastructure 
sector, which continues to drive sustainable 
growth, create jobs and build a brighter future 
for the UK.
Communities
Our activities can have a lasting 
impact on the communities in which 
we operate – we strive to leave a 
positive legacy.
2024 engagement examples:
 
@ When Hurricanes Milton and Helene crossed 
over the Southeast of the US within three 
weeks of each other, they left significant wind 
damage and, tragically, loss of life in their wake. 
Colleagues from Balfour Beatty’s US Buildings 
and Civils business across Florida, Georgia and 
the Carolinas volunteered with church and 
community organisations and made countless 
donations to support the people most affected 
within their communities. 
 
@ In the UK, the Sellafield Box Encapsulation 
(BEP) Project team held the third Social Prescribing 
Festival, at The Whitehaven Rugby League 
Stadium, bringing together 1,550 people from 
the community to talk about mental health and 
wellbeing. The event saw 562 children fed, with 
66 support services and 17 activity providers in 
attendance. Balfour Beatty, Mental Health and 
Wellbeing Lead Cath Melvin, said “We may 
never know the true impact of the ripple effect 
caused by something as simple as picking up 
a leaflet, having a five-minute chat, or browsing 
a service provider’s information stand. What we 
do know is that we touched the lives those 
who attended”
.
Award-winning 
volunteering in Hong Kong
In Hong Kong, Gammon was recognised by 
the Construction Industry Volunteer Award 
Scheme with six prestigious awards. Notably, 
Gammon colleague Au Kam Chuen was 
individually recognised for his exceptional 
contributions, receiving the Gold award for 
Excellence in Construction Industry Volunteering. 
Right First 
Time Award
This category is for an individual 
who constantly delivers with quality at the 
forefront of their mind seeking improvements 
to ensure we avoid costly re‑work and deliver 
on our commitments. 
Winner: Frank O’Hare 
Construction Manager, HS2 Area North
Frank is a dedicated leader who prioritises 
quality, ensuring projects are completed to the 
highest standard with his ‘check, check, and 
check again’ philosophy. His meticulous 
attention to detail during preconstruction helps 
identify and correct even the smallest errors, 
preventing delays and ensuring first-time 
success. Frank’s leadership extends beyond 
project management; he mentors team 
members, apprentices, and summer 
placements, helping them develop their 
strengths and improve weaknesses. 
Above: Award presentation photo. (Left to right) Steve 
Helliwell, Managing Director – Balfour Beatty Living Places, 
Frank O’Hare, Construction Manager – HS2 Area North, and 
Shaun Davies MP – Member of Parliament for Telford. 
READ MORE ABOUT OUR ICON 
AWARDS EVENT ON p74
Creating value: 
In the UK, Balfour Beatty continues to use 
the National TOMs framework as a method 
of measuring and reporting social value to a 
consistent and recognised standard. In 2024 
across Balfour Beatty’s UK projects, we delivered 
over £990 million in social value and met our 
target to deliver £3 billion in social value by 2030 
five years early. 
For more information about our community 
engagement efforts in 2024, see pages 63 to 65.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
30
30
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
Strong performance 
across diverse portfolio 
Throughout this report, the Group 
has presented financial performance 
measures which are considered 
most relevant to Balfour Beatty 
and are used to manage the 
Group’s performance. 
These financial performance measures are chosen 
to provide a balanced view of the Group’s operations 
and are considered useful to investors as these 
measures provide relevant information on the 
Group’s past or future performance, position or 
cash flows. These financial performance measures 
are also aligned to measures used internally to 
assess business performance in the Group’s 
budgeting process and when determining 
compensation. An explanation of the Group’s 
financial performance measures and appropriate 
reconciliations to its statutory measures are 
provided in the Measuring Our Financial Performance 
section. Non-underlying items are the cause of 
the differences between underlying and statutory 
profitability. Additionally, revenue includes the 
Group’s share of revenue of joint ventures 
and associates. 
REVENUE¹
£8,199m
2023: £8,081m
STATUTORY REVENUE
£6,630m
2023: £6,695m
UNDERLYING PROFIT FROM OPERATIONS
£159m
2023: £156m
STATUTORY PROFIT FROM OPERATIONS
£87m
2023: £143m
ORDER BOOK¹
£15.2bn
2023: £13.7bn
1 Including share of joint ventures and associates.
The UK Construction order book grew marginally 
to £6.2 billion (2023: £6.1 billion), with 92% 
(2023: 91%) of those orders from public sector 
and regulated industry clients. 
US Construction: Revenue in US Construction 
decreased by 2% (1% increase at CER) to 
£3,638 million (2023: £3,697 million). Underlying 
profit from operations for US Construction reduced 
by 22% to £40 million (2023: £51 million) as a 
small number of civils projects have taken longer 
than initially scheduled. Due to the fixed-price 
nature of the contracts, the cost of these delays 
has impacted profitability in 2024 and US Construction 
PFO is expected to improve in 2025. 
The US Construction order book increased by 
27% (25% at CER) to £7
.1 billion (2024: £5.6 billion) 
with increases in both the buildings and civils 
divisions. US Buildings grew its order book in all 
but one of its geographic divisions, with an increase 
in commercial office, hospitality, government, 
education and airports. US Civils order book 
growth was largely due to the business signing 
a $746 million contract to rebuild part of the 
Interstate 35 through Austin for the Texas 
Department of Transportation. 
Gammon: The Group’s share of Gammon’s revenue 
increased by 14% (17% at CER) to £1,550 million 
(2023: £1,357 million) driven by an increase in 
major civils volumes, including the Terminal 2 
expansion and automated people mover projects 
at Hong Kong International Airport. Underlying 
profit increased to £38 million (2023: £36 million) 
representing a 2.5% profit margin (2023: 2.7%). 
The Group’s share of Gammon’s order book 
decreased by 5% (11% at CER) to £1.9 billion 
(2023: £2.0 billion), with the progress made on 
the airport projects largely offset by new orders, 
which included a residential development in the 
Kai Tak area for the Hong Kong Housing Society, 
data centres in Hong Kong and Singapore, and a 
civils contract in Hong Kong’s Northern Metropolis 
to prepare the land and deliver engineering 
infrastructure works for a new development area.
Construction Services
Our Construction Services businesses 
operate across infrastructure and 
buildings markets in the UK, in the 
US and in joint venture in Hong Kong.
Financial review
Revenue at £8,199 million was up 1% 
(2023: £8,081 million), a 3% increase at CER, 
with higher volumes at Gammon. Underlying 
profit from operations increased to £159 million 
(2023: £156 million) due to improved profitability 
in UK Construction and higher volumes at Gammon, 
partially offset by reduced profitability in US 
Construction. Statutory profit for the year was 
£87 million (2023: £143 million). The order book 
increased 11% (9% at CER) in the year to £15.2 billion 
(2023: £13.7 billion), due to a strong year of orders 
in US Construction. 
UK Construction: Revenue in UK 
Construction decreased by 1% to 
£3,011 million (2023: £3,027 million). 
UK Construction underlying profit from operations 
increased to £81 million (2023: £69 million), 
largely driven by improved project delivery and the 
mix of work. This represents a 2.7% PFO margin 
(2023: 2.3%) and demonstrates progress in the 
Group’s medium-term ambition to achieve a 3% 
PFO margin in UK Construction, with further 
improvement expected in 2025 and 2026.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

31
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Operational review
UK Construction
Strong medium-term outlook in UK 
growth markets
Since coming to power in July 2024, the UK 
Government has been firm in its commitment 
to stimulating growth in the UK economy, and 
has highlighted the importance of maintaining, 
improving, and expanding UK infrastructure in 
achieving this. As part of its broad investment 
plans, the Government has addressed the 
requirement for additional investment in various 
sectors, including Balfour Beatty’s UK growth 
areas of energy, transport and defence, with 
further detail to follow in June as part of the 
10 Year Infrastructure Strategy and multi-year 
comprehensive spending review. The Government 
is also investigating other potential enablers to 
reduce the time and costs associated with 
infrastructure development in the UK, including 
the simplification of planning and the utilisation of 
private financing. In January 2025, the Government 
announced plans to block campaigners from 
making repeated legal challenges to planning 
decisions for major infrastructure projects in 
England and Wales, with the intention of reducing 
the time taken to achieve the relevant consents. 
The essential long-term upgrade to the UK’s 
energy infrastructure is now well underway, 
driving improvement in energy security and 
facilitating the energy transition, with Balfour 
Beatty heavily involved in active projects such 
as the new Hinkley Point C nuclear power station 
in Somerset and across the UK with its market‑leading 
power transmission and distribution proposition. 
The scale of work required to meet the UK’s net 
zero ambitions is vast and is likely to be ongoing 
for decades to come. In 2024, there were a 
number of key developments in the progression 
of new projects which Balfour Beatty expect to 
play a major role in: 
 
@ the UK Government announced a £21.7 billion 
pledge for projects to capture and store carbon 
emissions from energy, industry and hydrogen 
production. Following this, Balfour Beatty, 
alongside Technip Energies and GE Vernova, 
received notice to proceed to start the full 
engineering, procurement and construction 
package for the onshore power, capture and 
compression contract at Net Zero Teesside, 
the world’s first gas-fired power station with 
carbon capture and storage;
 
@ for the proposed Sizewell C nuclear power station, 
the UK Government increased its financial 
commitment to take the project to final 
CONSTRUCTION SERVICES
2024
2023
Revenue 
1
£m
PFO 
£m
Order book 
1
£bn
Revenue 
1
£m
PFO
£m
Order book 
1
£bn
UK Construction
3,011
81
6.2
3,027
69
6.1
US Construction
3,638
40
7.1
3,697
51
5.6
Gammon
1,550
38
1.9
1,357
36
2.0
Underlying2
8,199
159
15.2
8,081
156
13.7
Non-underlying
–
(72)
–
–
(13)
–
Total
8,199
87
15.2
8,081
143
13.7
1 Including share of joint ventures and associates.
2 Before non-underlying items (Note 10).
A reconciliation of the Group’s performance measures to its statutory results is provided in the Measuring our financial performance section .
Pioneering 
Engineering 
Award
This category was for a team who create new 
boundaries by designing out risk, moving us 
into more modern ways of working.
READ MORE ABOUT 
OUR ICON AWARDS 
EVENT ON p74
Above: Award presentation photo. (Left to right) Nigel Russell, 
Chief Executive Officer – HS2 Major Projects, The HS2 Marston 
Box Slide Team, and Alistair Phillips-Davies CBE, Chief 
Executive Officer – SSE. 
investment decision to £5.5 billion. Balfour 
Beatty is part of the Civils Works Alliance for 
Sizewell C, alongside Bouygues Travaux Publics 
and Laing O’Rourke, which will deliver the 
extensive civil works package; and
 
@ Great British Nuclear, the UK Government’s 
expert nuclear delivery body, shortlisted four 
companies for its small modular reactor programme, 
including Holtec, for which Balfour Beatty is the 
main construction partner. Final decisions are 
expected to be announced in the coming months.
The UK Government plans to strengthen national 
security and modernise defence infrastructure, 
with the intent of increasing defence spending to 
2.5% of GDP by 2027
. Balfour Beatty has been a 
long-term participant in the UK’s defence and 
security sector and has delivered growth in its 
market share during 2024. The Group’s experiences 
in civil nuclear construction hold close adjacencies 
with some of the projects being tendered, while 
its end-to-end capabilities can simplify high security 
project delivery by reducing complex interfaces. 
As a testament to this, Balfour Beatty has been 
selected by Rolls-Royce as a construction partner 
for the expansion work in Raynesway, Derby, 
needed to meet the growth in demand from the 
Ministry of Defence and as a result of the AUKUS 
agreement. As part of the package of works, 
which will be executed in stages over the next 
eight years, Balfour Beatty will deliver infrastructure 
enabling works, build new manufacturing and 
office facilities, and redevelop existing industrial 
buildings on site. This will increase Rolls-Royce’s 
capacity to manufacture reactor components for 
nuclear submarines. The UK defence sector has 
been identified as one of the Group’s key growth 
markets, and as such, further material 
opportunities are currently being pursued.
In the UK transport sector, the Group retains 
strong market positions in both major road 
and rail construction. 
Winner: 
The HS2 Marston 
Box Slide 
T
eam
Sasan Ghavami, Neil Kennard 
and John Gill, HS2 Major Projects
In a huge feat of engineering last year, our HS2 
team delivered the world’s longest box slide to 
move Marston Box railway bridge into place over 
the M42. Built using the Autoripage method – 
enabling the installation of a structure entirely 
prefabricated on a nearby base and sliding it to 
its final position – the Marston Box bridge slide 
reduced construction time from two years to six 
months and eliminated the need for piling, lowering 
the carbon footprint. The operation was developed 
through a collaboration between Balfour Beatty 
VINCI joint venture, HS2 and National Highways, 
and was completed safely, moving the 12,600-tonne 
structure 186 meters in just 48 hours. 
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
32
32
Construction services 
continued
Operational review continued
UK Construction continued
Strong medium-term outlook in UK growth 
markets continued 
Transport is an important component of the 
Government’s growth plans, and further details 
are expected as part of the 10 Year Infrastructure 
Strategy and the Treasury’s multi-year comprehensive 
spending review, due in June. Following these 
announcements, National Highways will release 
its third Road Investment Strategy (RIS3). These 
plans will give a clearer timeline for projects such 
as the Lower Thames Crossing road scheme, a 
project which the Group was awarded £1.2 billion 
of work for in 2023 but has yet to go to contract, 
and major rail electrification schemes, all of which 
are of strategic importance to both the UK and 
Balfour Beatty. The Group also holds deep experience 
in construction at UK airports, so the Government’s 
plan for expansion and development of London 
airports is also positive for Balfour Beatty in the 
medium term. During 2024, Balfour Beatty was 
awarded a £185 million contract on the A9 road 
in Scotland, which will see the Group upgrade six 
miles of single carriageway to dual carriageway, 
and undertook early contractor involvement 
activities on the Lower Thames Crossing. 
Continued margin expansion and strong 
operational delivery 
Balfour Beatty holds a market-leading position in 
a growing UK infrastructure market, with unmatched 
scale and vertically integrated capability for delivering 
major and regional civils projects. In a period of 
increased demand, the Group is being more 
selective in the work it undertakes, resulting in a 
higher quality and lower-risk forward order book. 
The 2024 order book is heavily weighted towards 
lower-risk contract forms, with 59% target cost 
and 20% cost plus incentivised fee, while the 
remaining 21% is weighted towards two stage 
fixed price contracts, which are inherently 
lower-risk than one stage fixed price arrangements. 
UK Construction currently has around 700 live 
projects, and the Group remains focused on 
ensuring that new work is contracted on the 
appropriate contractual terms and conditions 
for the risk undertaken, in order to protect the 
Group’s margin and reduce the loss-making 
portion of the project portfolio.
The two key drivers of the ongoing increase in the 
UK Construction margin, which has improved for a 
fourth successive year and is forecast to do so 
further in 2025, are the lower-risk nature of the 
order book and strong operational delivery. Balfour 
Beatty’s ambition to provide industry‑leading project 
delivery across the UK Construction portfolio not 
only drives margin performance in the period, but 
demonstrates the Group’s capabilities and 
standards, thereby aiding the pursuit of future 
work. 
On the UK’s largest infrastructure project, HS2, 
Balfour Beatty and its joint venture partners are 
delivering the main civil engineering works for the 
Area North section and the new station at Old 
Oak Common in west London. On Area North, the 
Balfour Beatty VINCI joint venture has completed 
the four huge piers of the Curzon 2 bridge, 
marking a significant construction milestone on 
the sequence of viaducts that will take high-speed 
trains in and out of Birmingham. At Old Oak 
Common, the Balfour Beatty VINCI SYTRA joint 
venture completed the excavation of the stations 
underground box, a vast structure big enough to 
accommodate the equivalent of 300 Olympic 
sized swimming pools, and has now completed 
construction of the stations base slab, which 
required 76,000 cubic metres of concrete and 
17
,000 tonnes of reinforced steel. At Hinkley Point 
C, the Balfour Beatty team delivering the marine 
works for the new nuclear station have made 
strong progress under the Bristol Channel. In 
December, the team completed the two 
OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED
connections in the outfall tunnel, which was a key 
project milestone for the year, with focus now on 
the remaining connections in the two intake 
tunnels. 
The Major Highways team is two years in to the 
major improvement scheme at the interchange 
between Junction 10 of the M25 and the A3. 
During 2024, Balfour Beatty conducted three full 
weekend closures as part of the improvement 
scheme at Wisley, the first in the M25’s 38 year 
history, with works completed ahead of schedule 
on all occasions. The team has also made good 
progress on the A63 improvement scheme in Hull 
and has added additional emergency refuge areas 
on the M25, M3 and M4, improving safety for all 
users of these routes.
In 2024, the division completed work at a wide 
range of projects including the Edinburgh Futures 
Institute at the University of Edinburgh, highway 
and junction improvements in North West Crewe 
and the Lewisham Gateway residential project. 
Beyond the new Rolls-Royce and A9 contracts, 
other projects added to the UK Construction order 
book during 2024 included HMP Highland in 
Inverness, on behalf of the Scottish Prison 
Service, enabling works at HMNB Devonport, 
a replacement secondary school for the Nairn 
academy and also the divisions share of the 
Group’s recent power transmission and 
distribution orders. 
In November, Balfour Beatty signed a two year 
extension to its existing four year term as sole 
contractor to both of the SCAPE Civil Engineering 
frameworks, which cover England, Wales and 
Northern Ireland, and the entirety of Scotland. 
The frameworks will now run until November 
2028. 
Balfour Beatty VINCI 
completes first sections 
of HS2 Curzon Street 
station viaduct
In 2024, Balfour Beatty VINCI completed the 
first sections of the landmark viaduct that will 
bring high-speed trains into Birmingham’s 
new Curzon Street station.
The completed sections mark the next step 
on the programme to build a series of 
viaducts to carry the railway through 
Birmingham’s industrial heartland and into 
the city centre.
High speed trains will travel out of the west 
portal of the 3.5 mile Bromford Tunnel at 
Washwood Heath and onto a one mile long 
stretch of connected viaducts through 
Duddeston, and cross over the Birmingham 
to Derby railway, Lawley Middleway and 
Digbeth Canal.
On the approach into Birmingham, the five 
viaducts are Duddeston, Curzon 1, Curzon 2, 
Lawley Middleway and Curzon 3, which links 
to Curzon Street station.
The completed six metre-high sections of the 
Curzon 3 viaduct are where the structures 
widen from a single deck to four separate 
decks, spanning 65 metres at the widest 
point, to carry the tracks to the Curzon Street 
station platforms.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

33
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
US Construction
Balfour Beatty’s US Construction division is 
comprised of the US Buildings and US Civils 
businesses. US Buildings is a construction 
management business diversified across 
geographies and client sectors, which targets 
major cities and urban areas in states with 
favourable economic outlooks. The US Civils 
business focuses on highways projects in Texas 
and the Carolinas, and on local rail and civils work 
in California. Given the division’s diversification 
across capabilities, geographies and sectors, 
the result of the recent US election has not 
had a material impact on the outlook for US 
Construction, while recent third party forecasts 
have projected construction spending in the 
Group’s chosen states to surpass the national 
average to 2029, with an annual average growth 
of 7% forecast. 
At the 2023 full year results announcement, the 
Group outlined differing strategic approaches to 
the two US Construction disciplines, which have 
influenced the direction of the businesses in 2024 
and will continue to do so in the future. US Buildings 
had been recognised as one of Balfour Beatty’s 
four growth markets, with the business making 
notable progress in 2024, and is considered the 
lower-risk segment within the division. With most 
of the projects undertaken by US Construction 
contracted on fixed-price terms, Buildings utilise 
the early issuance of subcontracts and insurance 
of the supply chain to mitigate risk. Comparatively, 
civils contracts in the US are generally delivered 
on a self-perform basis, which on fixed price 
arrangements gives limited scope to mitigate 
inflation and schedule risk. As a result, the Group 
remains cautious in its approach to complex civils 
contracts in the US and has reduced its exposure 
to the sector in recent years, with bidding now 
focused on projects which closely align to its 
core capabilities. 
US activities further weighted towards 
growing US Buildings business 
Balfour Beatty’s growth engine in the US is its 
buildings business, which increased revenue by 
2% (5% at CER) in 2024 and contributed 87% of 
US Construction revenues (2023: 85%, 2022: 78%). 
Having identified the opportunity for growth in 
2023, based on the strength of some core markets, 
including aviation, leisure, education and government, 
combined with the impact of a more settled 
economy, the Group put to work its two-pronged 
organic growth strategy to add further diversification 
to its regional businesses. The Group opened new 
offices, targeting additional cities in states with 
existing Balfour Beatty offices, and broadened the 
end-markets served in some regions where the 
business was already active. These factors have 
contributed to the US Buildings order book 
increasing 26% (24% at CER) in 2024, underpinning 
the growth expectations for 2025 and beyond. 
The new office locations, which were chosen 
based on market fundamentals and adjacency 
to established offices, include Sacramento in 
California, Savannah in Georgia, Charleston in 
South Carolina, Wilmington in North Carolina, 
Richmond in Virginia, and Jacksonville and Tampa 
in Florida. These offices have played an important 
role in the order book growth and are delivering 
projects such as the construction of a new terminal 
at the Jacksonville International Airport, a runway 
expansion at the Airport in Onslow County near 
Wilmington, and the second phase of an 
elementary school project in Sacramento.
By broadening the regions in which it serves 
certain end-markets, the US Buildings business 
is further utilising its in-house expertise and 
long-term customer relationships to drive organic 
growth, with success in various sectors. Following 
on from recent activity at Los Angeles International 
Airport, the Group more than doubled its aviation 
order book in 2024, adding new work in North 
Carolina, Florida and California. In education, the 
Group has leveraged its market-leading Californian 
Dream Team Award
This category was for a team who encompasses everything we expect 
at Balfour Beatty. A team who constantly do the right thing and work 
together to be collaborative, inclusive, safe, sustainable, customer focused, 
innovative – who’ve gone that extra mile and delivered something amazing.
READ MORE ABOUT 
OUR ICON AWARDS 
EVENT ON p74
offering, where it was the top education builder 
for the second consecutive year, to strengthen 
its local order book and also win work in North 
Carolina and Oregon. While for theme parks, as 
well as material new work being added in Florida, 
work is under way on projects in 
Texas and California. 
The Group is also exploring data centre opportunities 
outside of the Northwest market, which has 
served the business well in recent years. 
Strong operational delivery in US Buildings
During the year, progress has been made on 
significant Buildings projects including: 
 
@ transformation of an old Coca-Cola bottling 
facility in Atlanta, Georgia, into an elevated 
mixed-use property;
 
@ the completion of the Del Mar Heights School 
rebuild project in San Diego, California;
 
@ began construction activities to deliver 
Sacramento International Airport’s pedestrian 
walkway project in California;
Above: Award presentation photo. The Harkers Island 
Bridge Replacement Team (left), Stephen Tarr, Divisional 
CEO – Power, Transmission & Distribution, Rail and 
Balfour Beatty Kilpatrick, (middle, back), and Andrew 
McNaughton, Executive Director – Atomic Weapons 
Establishment (right). 
Winner: 
The Harkers Island 
Bridge Replacement 
T
eam
Pete Distefano, Mike Ewell, Will Janning, 
Alex Tejero, Benjamin Sasser, Michael McDermot, 
Jacob Willcox and Greg Wilkerson, US Civils
The Harkers Island team went more than the extra 
mile to deliver the project a year early. They partnered 
with the client to work through challenges at world 
record speed to expedite the delivery of the project 
while making sure all work was delivered safely. 
The team also used new innovations and products 
to provide the client with a better and more durable 
product. They were the first in the US to use carbon 
strand reinforcing and fibreglass bars in place of steel 
rebar – a lightweight and strong material to use 
for structural strengthening and repairs. This alone 
will be a legacy for Balfour Beatty.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
34
34
Construction services 
continued
Operational review continued
US Construction continued
Strong operational delivery in US Buildings 
continued
 
@ started construction of a mixed-use 
development in Dallas, Texas, which includes 
retail, restaurant, office and parking; and
 
@ broke ground at the new Durham School of the 
Arts in North Carolina, alongside our joint 
venture partner.
Further progress made in US Civils strategy
The US Civils business continued to pivot towards 
a more concentrated portfolio of projects in 2024. 
Highways and bridges, which are profitable activities 
for the division, represents 75% of the order book 
at year end compared to 60% the year before. 
This was driven by progress made on live projects 
during the year and new orders, which included a 
$746 million contract to rebuild part of the Interstate 
35 through Austin for the Texas Department of 
Transportation. The project, which is expected to 
complete in 2033, closely aligns to the Group’s 
selective approach to US civils; working for a 
long-term customer and in a geography where 
Balfour Beatty has proven expertise, strong 
teams and trusted supply chain partners. 
Progress at the major US Civils projects in 
2024 included:
 
@ Balfour Beatty achieved substantial completion 
on the Caltrain electrification rail project in 
California in 2024, with final completion 
achieved in February 2025;
 
@ the business completed construction of the 
Sterling Natural Resource Center, a water 
reclamation facility in California;
 
@ as part of the LINXS joint venture at Los 
Angeles International Airport, the Group 
entered the testing and commissioning phase 
of the project, with recent testing bringing 
a train vehicle through the airport’s central 
terminal area, and the three automated people 
mover stations inside it, for the first time;
 
@ as part of the Colorado River Constructors 
joint venture on the Oak Hill Parkway highways 
project in Texas, the Group opened four 
cross-street bridges to traffic; and
 
@ progress continues on the Havelock Bypass 
project in North Carolina, with all 16 bridges 
and roadway construction now 
successfully completed. 
Gammon 
Strong positions in Hong Kong and Singapore
Gammon, Balfour Beatty’s 50:50 joint venture 
with Jardine Matheson based in Hong Kong, has 
forged a reputation for delivering high-quality 
projects in Southeast Asia. The outlook for the 
Hong Kong construction sector remains positive, 
with Government commitments to grow the 
railway network and build new major roads, in 
addition to the long-term Northern Metropolis 
project to develop more than 3,000 hectares by 
phases over the next 20 years. Gammon’s Singapore 
operations finished 2024 with a record order book 
and further opportunities to come. The Singapore 
Government is projecting increased infrastructure 
spend in 2025 and 2026, as it rolls out major 
infrastructure projects at its airport and metro, 
and the private sector property market continues 
to be strong.
Gammon celebrates 
the topping out of 
One Causeway Bay
In 2024, Gammon celebrated the topping out 
of the One Causeway Bay project, developed 
by Mandarin Oriental Hotel Group and 
managed by Hongkong Land. This milestone 
marked the structural completion of Hong 
Kong’s newest premium waterfront 
commercial development.
The building has achieved provisional 
Platinum ratings from BEAM Plus and 
Leadership in Energy and Environmental 
Design (LEED), pre-certification from WELL, 
and a Platinum rating from WiredScore 
certification. It is also targeting a Platinum 
rating from SmartScore certification. The 
project employs sustainable materials, 
including green concrete, green rebar, 
FSC-certified timber, and recycled materials.
Once complete, One Causeway Bay will offer 
500,000 sq. ft. of premium Grade A office 
space across 24 floors, along with 55,000 sq. 
ft. of retail space over five floors, including a 
rooftop bar and restaurant.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED
Gammon continues to have a strong share of both 
the buildings and civils markets in Hong Kong. In 
buildings, the focus is on the use of Design for 
Manufacture and Assembly (DfMA) and modular 
construction to improve productivity and efficiency 
and expanding the customer base on a selective 
basis. In civils, the strategy is to leverage engineering 
excellence, with a key area of future work likely to 
be from significant infrastructure programmes in 
Hong Kong and in Singapore.
During 2024, Gammon delivered an increased 
volume of work, with the automatic people mover 
(APM) and Terminal 2 expansion projects at Hong 
Kong International Airport both reaching peak 
levels of activity. The official inauguration of the 
airport’s three-runway system in November signified 
a key milestone for both projects, with Gammon 
playing a crucial role in the airports expansion to 
date, including the construction of a tunnel 
beneath the runway and taxiways, as well as 
essential infrastructure for air traffic control, 
utilities, roads, and drainage. 
Gammon’s Tonkin Street project reached 
substantial completion in October and is the first 
private residential project in Hong Kong to adopt 
concrete Modular Integrated Construction (MiC). 
By implementing MiC for the 22-storey, 198 unit, 
residential tower, the project achieved 65% 
reduction in construction waste and noise, as well 
as 60% decrease in traffic loading, significantly 
lowering carbon emissions throughout the 
construction process.
Gammon’s buildings team is progressing with 
the One Causeway Bay project, which when 
complete will have 500,000 square feet of office 
space across 24 floors and five floors for retail, 
marked a major milestone with a topping-out 
ceremony. The project, which occupies the former 
site of the historic Excelsior Hotel on the waterfront 
of Hong Kong’s Victoria Harbour, will open in 2025.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

35
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Support Services
Our Support Services businesses 
operate in the UK, designing, 
upgrading, managing and 
maintaining critical national 
infrastructure. 
REVENUE¹
£1,210m
2023: £1,006m
STATUTORY REVENUE
£1,210m
2023: £1,006m
UNDERLYING PROFIT FROM OPERATIONS
£93m
2023: £80m
STATUTORY PROFIT FROM OPERATIONS
£93m
2023: £80m
ORDER BOOK¹
£3.2bn
2023: £2.8bn
1 Including share of joint ventures and associates.
Financial review
The Support Services business provides power, 
plant, road and rail maintenance and is characterised 
by profitable recurring revenues underpinned by 
long-term frameworks targeting a PFO margin of 6-8%.
Support Services revenue increased by 20% 
to £1,210 million (2023: £1,006 million), mainly 
due to higher volumes in the road maintenance 
business, which included the first full years of 
the major contracts at Buckinghamshire and 
East Sussex, and increased power transmission 
and distribution activity. Underlying profit from 
operations increased to £93 million (2023: £80 million) 
driven by higher revenue. This resulted in PFO 
margin of 7
.7% in the year (2023: 8.0%), which 
is at the top end of the targeted 6-8% PFO margin 
range and represents a further strong year for the 
power, road and rail maintenance businesses, 
with the reduction in margin driven by a change 
in the mix of work delivered. 
The Support Services order book increased by 
14% to £3.2 billion (2023: £2.8 billion) driven by 
new power transmission and distribution 
contacts, aligned with the growing demand 
in the sector. 
Operational review
Further traction in power transmission 
and distribution expansion
In 2024, the UK Electricity System Operator 
published a report titled ‘Beyond 2030 – A national 
blueprint for a decarbonised electricity system in 
Great Britain’, which estimated that over £60 
billion of investment in network infrastructure is 
required by 2030 to facilitate the connection of 
new offshore generation and other new renewable 
energy sources. The key transmission infrastructure 
operators, National Grid, SSEN and SPEN, have 
now published their RIIO-T3 business plans, which 
layout their proposed projects to 2031 and confirm 
the sharp expansion of work required across the 
industry in the balance of this decade and beyond. 
SUPPORT SERVICES
2024
2023
Order book (£bn)
3.2
2.8
Revenue1 (£m)
1,210
1,006
Profit from 
operations2 (£m)
93
80
Non-underlying 
items (£m)
–
–
Statutory profit from 
operations (£m)
93
80
1 Including share of joint ventures and associates
2 Before non-underlying items (Note 10)
A reconciliation of the Group’s performance measures to its 
statutory results is provided in the Measuring our financial 
performance section 
Unlocking renewable 
energy capacity between 
Scotland and England
In 2024, we were awarded a contract by 
Prysmian to install 68km of high voltage 
direct current (HVDC) land cables from 
Fraisthorpe Sands to Drax in Yorkshire, 
England, as well as an additional 1km of 
HVDC land cable at Peterhead, in Scotland.
The works are part of the Eastern Green Link 
2 (EGL2) project, which was jointly developed 
by Scotland and Southern Electricity 
Networks (SSEN) Transmission and National 
Grid Electricity Transmission. The project will 
form a 2GW HVDC electrical ‘superhighway’ 
cable link from Scotland to England which, 
when complete in 2029, will carry enough 
electricity to power two million households. 
Our teams will be responsible for delivering 
approximately 15% of the route on behalf 
of Prysmian, replacing and upgrading 
approximately 25km of overhead lines in 
North Yorkshire, which will increase the 
capacity to connect the EGL2 project.
The new cables will be installed underground, 
to reduce the visual impact of the scheme and 
ensure that the landscape across East Riding 
of Yorkshire, North Yorkshire and at Peterhead 
remains unhindered for the local community 
and visitors alike.
Balfour Beatty holds a market-leading position in 
the rapidly growing UK power transmission and 
distribution construction industry and saw a 
record level of bidding success in 2024, being 
contracted or selected for various schemes and 
frameworks including:
 
@ an Initial Works Contract with SSEN for the 
Skye Reinforcement project;
 
@ a £192 million contract with SSEN for the Argyll 
Substations project;
 
@ a £363 million contract with National Grid to 
deliver the Bramford to Twinstead 
Reinforcement project;
 
@ a contract with Prysmian to install 69km of 
high-voltage direct current land cables as part 
of the Eastern Green Link 2 (EGL2) project, 
being jointly developed by SSEN Transmission 
and National Grid; and
 
@ selected as one of eight preferred partners 
for Scottish Power Energy Networks’ Strategic 
Agreement for Transmission Overhead Line 
Works, with up to £3 billion of work being tendered.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
36
36
Support Services continued
Operational review
Further traction in Power T&D expansion
The increased activity in the market is driving a 
capability imbalance, with demand outweighing 
supply. This brings commercial opportunities to 
the Group, which benefits from holding the 
largest power workforce in the UK, and ensures 
that contracts can be undertaken on a lower-risk 
basis than in the past. It also leaves the Group 
with a recruitment challenge to meet the growing 
demand, and in 2024 the Power team had over 
500 new starters, while improving the retention 
of existing colleagues. 
During the year, the business finished wiring all 
116 T
-Pylons and constructing a further 27 traditional 
lattice pylons on the Hinkley Point C Connection 
project for National Grid. The Viking Link interconnector, 
the longest interconnector in the world for which 
Balfour Beatty constructed the 65km UK onshore 
underground cable route, is now live and transmitting 
power between the UK and Denmark. The Group 
also completed 62km of overhead line refurbishment 
between Bramford and Norwich, began to 
transition 3.5km of overhead lines in the North 
Wessex Downs to underground cables, handed 
back the first leg of the London Power Tunnels 2 
project and energised the final circuit at the 400kV 
Littlebrook Substation. Balfour Beatty’s portfolio 
of power transmission and distribution projects 
continues to reflect the major role which the 
Group is playing in upgrading the grid to meet 
the UK’s net zero ambitions. 
OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED
REVENUE¹
£606m
2023: £508m
STATUTORY REVENUE
£394m
2023: £292m
UNDERLYING PROFIT BEFORE TAX
£54m
2023: £47m
STATUTORY PROFIT BEFORE TAX
£51m
2023: £43m
DIRECTORS’ VALUATION
£1.25bn
2023: £1.21bn
1 Including share of joint ventures and associates, before 
non-underlying items.
Increased road maintenance activity 
The addressable road maintenance market 
continues to grow, with the Government’s Autumn 
2024 Budget announcing nearly £1.6 billion in 
capital funding for local highways maintenance in 
England for the financial year starting April 2025, 
which represents a £500 million increase on the 
prior year. Longer-term funding will be determined 
by the ongoing comprehensive spending review. 
In 2024, Balfour Beatty substantially increased 
the volume of road maintenance work delivered, 
driven by the first full year of the Buckinghamshire 
and East Sussex contracts which had started in 
2023, and increased demand for road patching 
activities. Looking forward, there are several Local 
Authority contracts coming to market in the next 
year for which the Group is well positioned, as it 
looks to further deploy its effective maintenance 
solutions and technology-driven infrastructure 
management.
Rail
The rail maintenance market is well funded for 
the period to 2029, with £45 billion available 
for investment in operations, maintenance and 
renewal as part of Network Rail’s Control Period 7 
(CP7) strategic business plan. The business is 
diversified across various frameworks, and during 
the year won £169 million of work for the Central 
Rail Systems Alliance framework, with the Group 
now half way through its 10 year contract. 
The Group is particularly focused on electrification 
schemes, as part of its ambition to deliver more 
net zero infrastructure in the UK. Furthermore, 
the proposed restructuring of the UK rail industry 
should see greater opportunities for efficiency as 
the management of track and trains are brought 
closer together.
Infrastructure investments
Our Infrastructure Investments business develops and finances both 
public and private infrastructure projects in the UK and the US.
Financial review
Infrastructure Investments made an £8 million 
underlying loss from operations in the year 
(2023: £5 million profit). In the US, the costs 
relating to the independent compliance monitor’s 
work across the US military housing portfolio 
increased, and in the UK, the Group wrote off 
capitalised bidding costs following the cancellation 
of a student accommodation project, for which 
it had been awarded preferred bidder status. 
When including a gain on disposal of £43 million 
(2023: £26 million), underlying profit from 
operations was £35 million (2023: £31 million). 
Balfour Beatty continues to invest in attractive 
new opportunities, each expected to meet its 
investment hurdle rates. In the year, the Group 
invested £28 million in new and existing projects, 
with a US student accommodation project and a 
US multifamily housing project added to the 
portfolio. Balfour Beatty also continues to sell 
assets, timed to maximise benefit to shareholders. 
One disposal was completed in 2024, with the 
Group reducing its stake in the Northside student 
accommodation project at the University of Texas 
at Dallas. The transaction delivered £43 million 
gain on disposal and £43 million of cash, which 
was above the Directors’ valuation.
Net investment income of £19 million was £3 million 
higher than the prior year (2023: £16 million) and 
included an impairment write back of subordinated 
debt as, following a final decision from Ofgem, 
costs were recovered relating to a faulty OFTO 
cable, which had been provided for in prior periods. 
This was partially offset by lower interest received 
on subordinated debt.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

37
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS
2024
£m
2023
£m
Pre-disposals operating profit²
(8)
5
Gain on disposals²
43
26
Profit from operations²
35
31
Net investment income~ 
19
16
Profit before tax²
54
47
Non-underlying items
(3)
(4)
Statutory profit before tax
51
43
2 
Before non-underlying items (Note 10).
~ 
Subordinated debt interest receivable, net interest receivable on PPP financial assets and non-recourse borrowings, fair value (loss)/gain 
on investment asset and impairment to subordinated debt receivable and accrued interest.
 
A reconciliation of the Group’s performance measures to its statutory results is provided in the Measuring our financial performance section. 
Balfour Beatty Communities celebrates the start of a new 
military housing development at Fort Carson
Balfour Beatty Communities, in partnership with 
the United States Army, celebrated the start of a 
new military family housing construction at Fort 
Carson, Colorado. The ceremony, held in August 
2024, at the Arapahoe Village neighbourhood 
construction site within Fort Carson Family Homes, 
marked the commencement of the first phase in 
an anticipated multi-phased project looking to 
bring more than 200 new homes on the base.
This initial phase will deliver 56 new three and 
four bedroom townhome units, including an 
accessible unit designed for persons with 
disabilities. This development aims to provide 
high-quality, modern living spaces that cater 
to the needs of military families stationed at 
Fort Carson. Features will include garages, 
an open-concept floor plan, plank flooring, 
energy-efficient appliances, and EV 
charging infrastructure.
Col. Sean M. Brown, former Garrison Commander, 
Fort Carson said: “This project represents a 
critical investment in the quality of life for our 
service members and their families. We are 
excited to see these new homes come to 
fruition and are grateful for the partnership in 
making this vision a reality."
Construction of the first phase of homes is 
underway, with completion anticipated in 
Autumn 2025.
Underlying profit before tax increased to £54 million 
(2023: £47 million). Statutory profit before tax was 
£51 million (2023: £43 million).
Operational review
Balfour Beatty’s competitive expertise to finance, 
develop, build and maintain infrastructure puts the 
Group in a strong position to capitalise on new 
investment opportunities. The Group has 
maintained its disciplined approach to investments 
and disposals to ensure the delivery of investment 
hurdle rates and is currently assessing investment 
opportunities in:
 
@ student accommodation: Across the UK and 
US, demand for student accommodation 
remains strong as universities continue to 
improve their facilities to attract students; 
 
@ residential: Balfour Beatty continues to see 
attractive US multifamily housing come to 
market, providing opportunity to invest 
profitably in the regeneration of these 
properties; 
 
@ US P3: The US has become an increasingly 
exciting market for public-private partnerships, 
and, to date, 42 states (plus DC) have passed 
legislation allowing P3 projects; and
 
@ energy transition: As the UK’s energy mix 
transitions to more renewable sources, and the 
UK adopts more sustainable transport such as 
electric vehicles, there are opportunities for 
private sector investment.
In the UK, the Group has commenced 
construction of a new student accommodation 
project – the 1,899 bed West Slope development 
– on behalf of the University of Sussex. The first 
new student accommodation and the health and 
wellbeing centre are expected to be open in time 
for the 2026/27 academic year, with more 
accommodation, catering and retail facilities 
opening over the following two years. 
In the US, the Group added two new projects 
to the portfolio, with a 564 bed US student 
accommodation project in Denton, Texas, and a 
296 unit US multifamily housing project in Mount 
Laurel, New Jersey. The Group was also awarded 
a developer contract to build a 1,070 bed 
undergraduate student housing complex at the 
University of Texas in Austin, while good progress 
has been made with construction on the 1,204 
bed William & Mary University project in Virginia. 
The Group’s key US P3 investment is the automated 
people mover project at Los Angeles International 
Airport, with US Construction contributing to the 
build phase and Infrastructure Investments 
providing an element of the financing. 
Construction is ongoing. 
In US military housing, the Group supported the 
military’s energy resilience goals by completing 
rooftop solar projects across five Navy bases in 
Florida, totalling 10.55 megawatts, and a $31 
million energy savings performance contract 
bringing energy and water efficiency improvements 
to the housing communities at 11 Navy installations 
in the Southeast. In 2025, the Group will be 
redeveloping homes at Ft Eisenhower and Ft 
Leonard Wood, with Government funding 
announced for both, while a ground lease 
extension at Ft Carson is under negotiation in 
order to bring forward funds to finance faster 
redevelopment. The Group continues to work 
with the independent compliance monitor, who 
commenced work in 2022 having been appointed 
by the Department of Justice. In November 2024, 
Balfour Beatty Communities and the independent 
compliance monitor agreed to extend the most 
recent implementation period to enable the 
delivery of the additional recommendations set 
out in the first follow-up report and agreed to 
commence the second follow-up review period 
in March 2025.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
38
38
DIRECTORS’ VALUATION OF THE INVESTMENTS PORTFOLIO
Strong track 
record of value 
creation
The Directors’ valuation increased by 3% to £1,254 million (2023: £1,212 million). 
The portfolio is 58% weighted towards the US (2023: 58%). 
The number of 
projects in the portfolio increased by one to 60 (2023: 59).
Balfour Beatty invested £28 million (2023: £31 million) 
in new and existing projects. During the year the 
Group added two new investments: a student 
accommodation project in Denton, Texas, and a 
multifamily housing project in Mount Laurel, 
New Jersey. 
Cash yield from distributions amounted to 
£34 million (2023: £48 million). Balfour Beatty 
continued disposals in the year with proceeds of 
£43 million (2023: £61 million), with the Group 
reducing its stake in the Northside student 
accommodation project at the University of Texas 
at Dallas. A preferred bidder student accommodation 
project in the UK was cancelled and has been 
removed from the portfolio.
Unwind of discount at £81 million (2023: £87 million) 
is a function of moving the valuation date forward 
by one year with the result that future cash flows 
are discounted by twelve months less. 
Operational performance movements resulted 
in a £2 million decrease (2023: £1 million). The 
operational performance movements in the UK 
were primarily due to recovery of costs for 
previous repairs on a faulty OFTO cable, offset by 
a higher costs and risk premia on certain assets. 
In the US, higher than forecast rental increases 
on the military housing portfolio were offset by 
higher costs, including an increase in independent 
compliance monitor costs. 
The exchange rate movement was a £12 million 
increase (2023: £43 million decrease). This was 
driven by sterling depreciating against the US 
dollar, slightly offset by sterling appreciating 
against the euro and thereby reducing the valuation 
of the one euro denominated project in the portfolio.
Methodology and assumption changes
The methodology for valuing most investments in 
the portfolio remains the discounted cash flow 
(DCF) method. Under this methodology cash 
flows for each project are forecast based on 
historical and present performance, future risks 
and macroeconomic forecasts. They also factor in 
secondary market assumptions. These cash flows 
are then discounted using different discount 
rates, which are based on the risk and maturity 
MOVEMENT IN VALUE 2023 TO 2024
£m
2023
Equity
invested
Distributions
 received
Sales
proceeds
Unwind of
 discount
Operational
 performance
FX
2024
UK
509
2
(18)
–
34
(1)
(1)
525
US
703
26
(16)
(43)
47
(1)
13
729
Total
1,212
28
(34)
(43)
81
(2)
12
1,254
PORTFOLIO VALUATION DECEMBER 2024
Value by sector
Sector
2024
No. projects
2023
No. projects
2024
£m
2023
£m
Roads
12
12
162
168
Healthcare
2
2
133
129
Student accommodation
5
6
137
137
Energy transition 
4
4
64
44
Other
2
2
29
31
UK total
25
26
525
509
US military housing
21
21
605
562
Student accommodation and other PPP
5
4
58
83
Residential housing
9
8
66
58
US total
35
33
729
703
Total
60
59
1,254
1,212
Value by phase
Phase
2024
No. projects
2023
No. projects
2024
£m
2023
£m
Operations
57
55
1,208
1,164
Construction
3
3
46
46
Preferred bidder
–
1
–
2
Total
60
59
1,254
1,212
Value by income type
Income type
2024
No. projects
2023
No. projects
2024
£m
2023
£m
Availability based
17
17
370
353
Demand – operationally proven (2+ years)
39
37
836
807
Demand – early stage (less than 2 years)
4
5
48
52
Total
60
59
1,254
1,212
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

39
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
of individual projects and reflect secondary market 
transaction experience. The main exception to the 
use of DCF is for US multifamily housing projects 
which, due to the perpetual nature of the assets 
and the depth and liquidity of the rental housing 
market, are valued based on periodic broker 
reports for each property. 
UK discount rates range from 7
.25% to 10.25% 
(2023: 7
.25% to 9.25%) depending on the 
maturity and risk of each project. The implied 
weighted average discount rate for the UK 
portfolio is 8.4% (2023 8.3%). A 1% change in 
the discount rate would change the value of 
the UK portfolio by approximately £48 million.
US discount rates range between 6.25% and 10.5% 
(2023: 6.25% and 10.5%) and the implied US 
weighted average discount rate is 7
.9% (2023: 8.1%). 
A 1% change in the discount rate would change 
the value of the US portfolio by approximately 
£79 million.
The portfolio remains positively correlated to 
inflation. A 1% change in the long-term inflation 
rate in the UK portfolio would change the valuation 
by approximately £28 million and a 1% change in 
the long-term rental growth rate in the US 
portfolio would change the valuation by 
approximately £74 million. 
As in previous periods, the Directors’ valuation 
may differ significantly from the accounting book 
value of investments shown in the financial 
statements, which are produced in accordance 
with International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS) rather than using a discounted cash flow 
approach. A full reconciliation is provided in 
section i) of the Measuring Our Financial 
Performance section.
UK PORTFOLIO VALUE AT A RANGE OF DISCOUNT RATES 
600
700
800
500
Directors’ valuation £m
Discount rate
December 2024
December 2023
400
300
200
100
0
+2%
+1.5%
+1%
+0.5% DV case -0.5%
-1%
-1.5%
2%
482
525
577
464
509
564
US PORTFOLIO VALUE AT A RANGE OF DISCOUNT RATES
1,200
1,000
Directors’ valuation £m
Discount rate
December 2024
December 2023
800
600
400
200
0
+2%
+1.5%
+1%
+0.5% DV case -0.5%
-1%
-1.5%
2%
656
729
818
634
703
788
PORTFOLIO INVESTMENT, DIVESTMENT AND DISTRIBUTIONS
Directors’ valuation £m
 Distributions 
 Investment 
 Divestment 
 Directors’ valuation
Distributions, investment and divestment
0
0
-250
-50
-500
-100
-750
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
-150
250
50
500
100
750
150
1,000
200
1,250
250
1,500
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
40
40
HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELLBEING
Creating a safe and 
healthy workplace
At Balfour Beatty, the health, safety and wellbeing of our people 
and partners is fundamental to our success.
Through our Zero Harm vision, we are committed 
to eliminating all illness and injuries caused by our 
work activity and embedding a culture where 
safety is a core value. Through monitoring our 
leading indicators, and adopting an innovative, 
collaborative and data-driven approach, we can 
proactively manage health, safety and wellbeing 
risks. Beyond physical safety, we recognise the 
importance of occupational health, including 
mental health and wellbeing, and offer comprehensive 
support, training and initiatives to ensure everyone 
goes home safe and well every day. Aligned with 
our Build to Last strategy, we continue to drive 
industry-leading standards, fostering a workplace 
where people feel empowered to speak up, take 
responsibility, and help shape a safer, 
healthier future.
In 2024, Balfour Beatty successfully delivered 
a number of incredibly complex projects, delivering 
over 105 million hours of work and achieving our 
safest year to date across challenging environments. 
This milestone is a direct result of the unwavering 
dedication of our people and partners, who live 
and breathe our Zero Harm ethos every day. Our 
success goes beyond statistics; it embodies a 
culture of shared responsibility, where safety is 
not just a priority but a fundamental value that 
guides every decision and action.
Performance statistics
LOST TIME INJURY RATE
 0.09
MAJOR INJURY RATE
 0.02
ACCIDENT FREQUENCY RATE 
3-DAY LOST TIME INJURIES
 0.07
ACCIDENT FREQUENCY RATE 
7-DAY LOST TIME INJURIES
 0.05
Balfour Beatty requires its employees 
and supply chain partners to always 
follow our four Golden Rules. We believe 
that if these simple steps are followed at 
all times, the chance of a preventable 
incident is eliminated.
Strong governance 
and accountability 
Health, safety and wellbeing remain our highest 
priority, underpinned by strong governance and 
accountability. We treat health like safety and 
mental health like physical health, ensuring a 
holistic approach to wellbeing.
Our Board-level Safety and Sustainability 
Committee provides strategic oversight of 
the Zero Harm strategy, ensuring continuous 
improvement, while our Executive Committee 
drives accountability for this strategy working 
closely with the Health, Safety and Wellbeing 
team to identify areas of focus and performance 
criteria, and reviewing any serious incidents 
where necessary. 
To strengthen operational safety, in 2024 we 
launched a Project Construction Leads group for 
all those responsible for frontline safety across 
our sites. Recognising the vital role our supply 
chain has in delivering our projects safely, we also 
hosted the inaugural Strategic Supplier Safety, 
Health, and Environment Leadership team (SHELT) 
forum. By aligning our supply chain partners with 
our Zero Harm objectives, we aim to drive systemic 
safety improvements throughout our operations.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

41
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Our industry-leading safety 
performance this year 
is a direct result of the 
unwavering commitment, 
vigilance and care shown 
by our people every day. 
Zero Harm isn’t just a goal, 
it’s a mindset that defines 
how we work, support 
each other and drive 
change across our industry.”
Lee Hewitt
UK Health, Safety and Wellbeing 
Director, Balfour Beatty
Industry-leading safety 
performance 
2024 saw industry-leading safety performance, 
with improvements across all key indicators:
 
@ our Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) improved from 
0.11 to 0.09 across the Group, marking our 
lowest-ever rate of injury;
 
@ in the UK, we recorded an LTIR of 0.11, 
surpassing even the artificially low incident 
rates seen during the COVID-19 pandemic; and
 
@ in the US, our LTIR dropped from 0.10 to 0.07
, 
alongside industry-leading performance across 
other safety metrics.
These achievements were underpinned by a 
strengthened Zero Harm culture, with a significant 
increase in health and safety observations – our 
key leading indicator – rising to over 470,000, 
driven in part by the US business nearly doubling 
its observations.
Despite working a record 105 million hours, we 
maintained a strong safety record, proving that 
increased complexity and scale do not compromise 
our commitment to Zero Harm. Individual projects 
and business units exemplified this ethos:
 
@ in UK Construction three of our Regional Civils 
delivery units, along with the Regional Buildings 
Business Unit celebrated year-long Zero Harm 
milestones; and
 
@ our Balfour Beatty VINCI HS2 joint venture, with 
a 9,000-strong workforce, celebrated 1.7 million 
hours without a Lost Time Injury (LTI).
LOST TIME INJURY RATE AND HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELLBEING OBSERVATIONS 
 Observations (000)
 LTIR
 
@ Across the US:
 
– 41 projects achieved over one year without 
an LTI;
 
– 12 projects reached over five years without an 
LTI; and
 
– our US military housing Navy base, Quiet 
Harbor at Saratoga Springs’ team marked 
16 years without an LTI.
As Balfour Beatty continues to build the critical 
infrastructure of the future, its focus remains 
steadfast: ensuring that every person who works 
with us goes home safe and well. 
Through leadership, 
digital innovation, and engagement, we are setting 
new benchmarks for health, safety, and wellbeing 
– driving progress across our industry and beyond.
MAJOR INJURY RATE
Excluding international joint ventures.
0.03
0.02
0.02
0.03
0.04
0.04
0.05
0.05
0.06
0.05
24
20
19
18
17
16
15
21
22
23
15
0
0.00
50,000
0.05
100,000
0.10
150,000
0.15
200,000
0.20
250,000
0.25
300,000
0.30
350,000
400,000
450,000
500,000
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
Pre 2022 LTIR adjusted upwards in 2022 report, following internal reclassification of 
incidents within one business area. Excluding international joint ventures.
LTIR
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
42
42
HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELLBEING CONTINUED
18th consecutive year of safety 
recognition in the US
In 2024 Balfour Beatty’s US Rail team celebrated 
their 18th consecutive year of recognition from 
the National Railroad Construction (NRC) 
Maintenance Association through their Safe 
Contractor of the Year award programme. 
This year was the 10th time the team received 
platinum level recognition, equating to a perfect 
score of 100 out of 100 points in the rigorous 
evaluation process. This award was given in 
recognition of nearly 800 Balfour Beatty 
teammates working almost one million hours 
with zero lost time injury, to deliver approximately 
700 miles of track work across three states.
Best mental health in the workplace 
strategy award in the UK
In 2024, Balfour Beatty won the ‘Best Mental 
Health in the Workplace Strategy’ Award at the 
This Can Happen Global Awards which recognises 
organisations that have implemented an exceptional 
strategy to strengthen mental wellbeing through 
adopting an inclusive, preventative, and supportive 
approach. This cross-sector accolade recognised 
the evolution of our wellbeing strategy since 
2020 as it has progressed from awareness 
raising and people-focused reactive support, 
to proactive solutions. 
Balfour Beatty was proud to showcase its 
holistic approach encompassing our Health and 
Wellbeing Strategy underpinned by our Zero 
Harm vision, alongside project and employee-led 
initiatives such as the appointment of health and 
wellbeing advisers and employee groups such 
as the Menopause Support Group.
The judge recognised ‘great implementation (of 
the strategy) with a holistic approach to improve 
mental health and wellbeing’. 
Gammon celebrates success 
at 2024 CIC Outstanding 
Contractor Awards
Gammon, our joint venture which operates 
in Southeast Asia, won multiple awards at the 
2024 CIC Outstanding Contractor Awards, 
including the prestigious ‘Outstanding Contractor 
Award’ in the Major Contractor category. These 
awards recognise commitment to safety, 
innovation, young practitioners, sustainability, 
professionalism and integrity management.
Driving Zero Harm through 
digital innovation 
AI
In 2024, StoaSafety, our in-house, AI-driven digital 
innovation programme for safety, began to bring 
the power of artificial intelligence to bear in 
enhancing safety outcomes. As an organisation, 
we collect vast amounts of safety data, much of 
which has traditionally been used to shape our 
strategic direction. However, many of these 
data points are lagging indicators. By leveraging 
AI-powered large language model tools, we can 
now analyse this data more comprehensively, 
enabling a more predictive approach to identifying 
safety trends and risks.
A key example is our observation data – one of the 
strongest indicators of safety culture on our sites 
and projects. Over the course of our Build to Last 
journey, our industry-leading Lost Time Injury Rate 
(LTIR) has been closely linked to an increase in 
observations. AI allows us to harness this correlation, 
pinpointing areas where early intervention can 
drive even stronger safety outcomes.
Already, this approach is delivering tangible benefits. 
AI analysis of observation data has enabled us to 
identify and address instances of abuse faced by 
our colleagues on the road network. By mapping 
high-risk locations at a glance, we can proactively 
engage with local police forces and authorities to 
mitigate risks and enhance protection for our 
workforce. This is just one example of how an 
AI-powered, data-driven approach can help drive 
improvements in health, safety and wellbeing.
BELOW
Gammon team at the CIC Outstanding 
Contractor Awards
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

43
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Human form recognition 
In 2024, we accelerated the development and 
deployment of human form recognition (HFR) 
cameras, reinforcing our commitment to innovation 
in site safety. From June, all plant hired from 
Balfour Beatty’s approved supply chain partners 
has been equipped with this mandatory system, 
marking a significant milestone in our safety 
strategy. These award-winning, multi-camera 
systems are installed on mobile plant to detect 
human presence and provide immediate visual 
and audible alerts to operators, preventing 
potential collisions before they occur.
A key advantage of HFR technology is its ability to 
capture and analyse incursion data. By providing 
both telematic data and automated video footage 
of exclusion zone breaches, HFR enables 
supervisors and management teams to build a 
more comprehensive understanding of site-specific 
risks. As AI technology advances, the integration 
of real-time video analysis will allow us to identify 
patterns, trends, and root causes of people-plant 
interface infringements. These insights will help 
us refine our approach, enhancing planning, 
training, and operational safety measures to 
further reduce risk and ensure our people go 
home safe every day.
Digital rehearsal to manage risk 
The work Balfour Beatty colleagues undertake is 
often challenging and highly technical. Factors 
such as location, other ongoing works, proximity 
to road and rail infrastructure and members of the 
public, programme and space constraints, all add 
layers of complexity to our operations. In 2024, 
we developed the capacity to perform ‘digital 
rehearsals’ – 3D animated walk-throughs of work 
activities in simulated environments designed to 
replicate real-world conditions. These rehearsals 
can help highlight additional risks and hazards that 
may not have been apparent at design phase, and 
can be turned into short, animated videos to help 
brief colleagues. 
Winner: Nick Boyle
Technical Director, Major Projects
Nick’s contribution to Zero Harm by driving innovation, improvement and 
health and safety by design across Balfour Beatty and the broader industry 
is significant. Since 2009, Nick has created, organised, promoted and 
hosted the Zero Harm Safety by Design and Engineering Forum. With 
300+ presentations and 1000+ online attendees, colleagues of all levels, 
academics, and our supply chain are empowered to share improvements 
in health and safety. Nick also created the Technical Expert Networks, 
empowering others to challenge and improve their areas of the business.
READ MORE ABOUT 
OUR ICON AWARDS 
EVENT ON p74
Above: Award presentation photo. (Left to right) Lee Hewitt, UK Health, Safety and 
Wellbeing Director, Nick Boyle, Technical Director – Major Projects, and Stuart Doughty 
CMG, former Balfour Beatty Non-executive Director. 
Zero Harm Award
This category recognised those who put health 
and safety at the heart of everything they do; 
challenging the norm, driving empowerment, 
and taking action to eliminate risks and protect 
the mental and physical health of our people. 
Equipping our teams with 
essential information
Minimising the risk of debilitating conditions caused by prolonged use 
of powered hand tools remains a critical focus across our projects. 
Where possible, we design out activities that require vibrating tools, 
but where their use is unavoidable, we are committed to reducing 
exposure and mitigating risk. Our Hand Arm Vibration Syndrome (HAVS) 
zero target – a campaign to eliminate new cases of HAVS – has driven 
innovation and engagement across the business, generating a series 
of MyC ideas aimed at improving workplace health.
One such idea led to the development of the Balfour Beatty Tool Selector 
Guide, created in collaboration with occupational health specialists and 
our Asset & Technology Solutions team. This mobile app provides site 
teams with a regulated and approved list of low-vibration tools that 
deliver the same efficiency while significantly reducing health risks. 
By offering a selection of at least five alternative tools for each task, 
the guide helps eliminate high-vibration options and raises awareness 
of safer alternatives.
The introduction of this tool marks a significant step forward in reducing 
HAVS risks across our operations.
BELOW
A screenshot of the HAVS selector tool mobile app.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
44
44
HEALTH, SAFETY AND WELLBEING CONTINUED
US Buildings’ Zero Harm lunch and learn sessions
In 2024, Balfour Beatty’s US Buildings team entered its third year of hosting employee Lunch 
and Learn sessions, reinforcing our commitment to continuous learning and safety excellence. 
A minimum of sixteen sessions are held each year, with participation required for all operations, 
preconstruction, and Health, Safety, and Environmental teams.
These sessions cover a wide array of topics, including impactful safety observations, client 
perspectives on safety, driver expectations, managing public access routes, utility strike prevention, 
and more. Each Lunch and Learn offers an in-depth exploration of lessons learned, innovative 
solutions, and knowledge sharing; fostering meaningful discussions to drive forward our Zero 
Harm culture.
Going beyond compliance 
in health and wellbeing
Balfour Beatty’s award-winning health, safety and 
wellbeing strategy, established in 2022, is focused 
on fostering a healthy organisation that goes beyond 
compliance. It aims to support the long-term 
health and success of our employees, partners, 
and the communities we serve. Through continuous 
evaluation and improvement, our wellbeing 
initiatives have led to innovations such as the 
Health Maturity Matrix, a self-assessment tool to 
help our projects determine a baseline, and then 
plan areas for improvement with specific action 
plans and commitment to priority areas, tailored 
e-learning tools on health topics, enhanced 
peer support programmes, and new trauma 
support guidelines.
Driving Zero Harm through 
digital innovation continued
Mandatory digital permits 
Building on the success of its digital permitting 
systems in managing high-risk activities, Balfour 
Beatty made digital permits mandatory across its 
sites from January 2024. This step drives clarity, 
efficiency and discipline in adhering to safe 
systems of work, ensuring that critical checks are 
visibly and consistently applied.
Our approach to digital permitting has evolved 
beyond the initial mandate, now encompassing 
all point-of-work safety checks, including permits, 
briefings, and risk assessments. These can now 
be conducted digitally, approved remotely, and 
supported by photographs and geolocation data to 
verify that checks occur precisely where they are 
required. 
The workforce has embraced this innovation, 
contributing 12 My Contribution ideas to enhance 
functionality. One of the outputs was the digitisation 
of pre-use plant inspection checklists, which 
streamlines checks while ensuring only relevant, 
equipment-specific questions are asked. Work is 
also progressing to link these inspection records 
directly to permits, further strengthening 
safety oversight.
Digital permits have been particularly impactful 
in reducing risks associated with breaking ground 
near existing services 
- over 40,000 digital permits 
to break ground were issued in 2024, contributing 
to a 30% reduction in service strikes. (See the 
2024 utility strike rate graph to the right.) As a 
result of these enhanced control measures, only 
two high-potential service strikes were recorded 
in the UK this year, demonstrating the tangible 
safety benefits of our digital-first approach.
Today, 90% of our permits are managed digitally, 
with ongoing efforts to expand coverage in areas 
with limited internet connectivity. 
2024 UTILITY STRIKE RATE
 Hours worked
 Utility strike rate
0.00
0
Hours worked – millions
0.05
10
0.10
20
0.15
30
0.20
40
0.25
50
0.30
70
60
0.35
0.40
2022
2023
2024
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

45
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
‘Let’s Talk’ across the UK
Each September, Balfour Beatty takes the opportunity to reflect on our health, safety and wellbeing 
culture, focusing on how we can continue to enhance safety across our sites. In 2024, our Project 
Construction Leads – including Works Managers, General Foremen, Site Managers, and Supervisors 
– led ‘Let’s Talk’ sessions, supported by local Health, Safety, and Wellbeing teams. These sessions 
focused on empowering our local leaders to set the tone for safe work practices, inspiring their 
teams and reinforcing the importance of leading by example. The ‘Let’s Talk’ initiative recognised 
the significant progress made while also encouraging open discussions on the challenges still to 
be addressed, reinforcing the need to make safety personal at every level.
Promoting psychological wellbeing 
In December 2024, Balfour Beatty achieved ISO 
45003 accreditation, the first global standard for 
managing psychological health and safety at work. 
This prestigious certification affirms the quality of 
our business processes and demonstrates our 
ongoing commitment to addressing mental health 
within the construction industry. Balfour Beatty is 
proud to be one of only a few companies in our 
sector to have attained this certification, reinforcing 
our leadership in promoting psychological wellbeing. 
By meeting the rigorous standards of ISO 45003, 
we ensure that best practices are consistently 
applied, driving accountability and fostering a 
culture of care and mental health awareness 
across our projects.
Suicide Prevention Month in the US
Recognising the heightened suicide risk in the 
construction industry, Balfour Beatty’s US Buildings 
and Civils business is committed to raising awareness 
and empowering our teams and partners to recognise 
the warning signs of suicide. During the 2024 
Suicide Prevention Awareness Month, and beyond, 
the team facilitated important conversations and 
highlighted vital mental health resources for 
our colleagues.
Two training sessions were conducted to equip 
attendees with the skills to support colleagues, 
friends, or family members at risk. Participants 
were trained to recognise signs of suicide risk, 
offer support, and connect individuals with the 
help they need.
UK supervisor forums and project 
construction leads
Balfour Beatty’s Health, Safety and Wellbeing 
strategy continues to evolve, embedding safety 
deeply into our organisational culture. In 2024, 
we strengthened our engagement with employees 
at all levels through multiple communication channels, 
including The Hi-Vis newsletter, Site Leader calls, 
and health, safety and wellbeing function calls. 
These channels ensure that safety remains at 
the front of our minds and support a culture of 
transparency and continuous improvement 
across the business.
Recognising that our supervisors are the linchpins 
of safety on the ground, Balfour Beatty has 
reinforced their critical role in shaping our Zero 
Harm objectives. The establishment of the UK 
Supervisor Forum gives these leaders a direct 
voice in influencing the direction of our strategy, 
creating a forum for sharing expertise and driving 
safety initiatives across our operations. Their 
insights are vital in cascading safety priorities 
through local Business Unit forums, creating a 
consistent and integrated approach to safety 
across all levels of the business.
Building on the success of this approach, in 2024 
we created a dedicated group of Project Construction 
Leads (PCLs), who are pivotal in influencing safety 
outcomes on site. This ‘Community of Practice’ 
fosters collaboration and standardisation across 
the business, empowering approximately 125 
colleagues to drive a consistent, high-performance 
safety culture across all projects. Regular interactions 
through face-to-face meetings and bi-monthly 
online forums ensure the ongoing evolution of our 
safety practices and strengthen our collective 
commitment to Zero Harm.
SCAN OR CLICK TO 
WATCH LEO'S VISIT TO 
THE UNIVERSITY OF 
SUSSEX FOR THE 'LET'S 
TALK' EVENT.
SCAN OR CLICK TO WATCH THE 
IMPORTANCE OF SITE BRIEFING
The ‘Let’s Talk’ campaign has 
been pivotal in promoting open 
communication and tackling 
local project challenges. With the 
strong backing of our Project 
Construction Leads, we’ve seen 
an incredible level of engagement 
that will undoubtedly strengthen 
our safety culture 
moving forward.”
Eddie Tapper
UK Works Manager, Balfour Beatty
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
46
46
ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE
Ethics programme
Under the oversight of the Board, the ethics and 
compliance programme consists of a framework 
of enterprise-wide and Strategic Business 
Unit-specific policies, procedures, guidelines 
and responsibilities designed to:
 
@ promote and foster an organisational culture of 
integrity, ethical decision making and compliance 
with Balfour Beatty’s values and behaviours as 
reflected in the Cultural Framework; 
 
@ assure that employees conduct business with 
the highest standards of ethics and integrity 
and in compliance with all applicable laws and 
regulations; and
 
@ promote appropriate risk assessment and due 
diligence to prevent and detect unlawful and 
unethical conduct. 
In 2024 a key focus area was the enhancement 
of our ethics and compliance systems. A new 
Group-wide Speak Up helpline and disclosure 
registers were launched, with the systems 
co-located in a new portal, providing a one-stop 
shop for the main ethics and compliance systems 
our employees need to use.
Steps have also been taken to align the programme 
itself across our territories with common, global 
principles underpinning our new Group policies on 
conflicts of interest and gifts and hospitality. This 
alignment has been aided by the appointment of 
new Heads of Ethics and Compliance for the UK 
and US Buildings and Civils businesses. 2025 will 
see a continued focus on alignment across the 
Group where possible.
In the UK, a key area of focus during 2024 has 
been on strengthening the engagement with our 
Ethics Officers, a network of employees who 
volunteer to support key ethics and compliance 
initiatives.
A Fraud Working Group chaired by the Group 
General Counsel has also been established to 
oversee our response to the new ‘failure to 
prevent fraud’ offence under the Economic Crime 
and Corporate Transparency Act 2023. A key first 
step has been to focus on our fraud risk assessment. 
We anticipate this being a priority area in 2025.
In relation to the US Military Housing business, 
Balfour Beatty continues to co-operate with 
the US Department of Justice and is now in 
the third year of a monitorship entered into on 
6 September 2022. 
SCAN OR CLICK TO FIND OUT 
MORE ABOUT OUR CODE OF 
ETHICS PROGRAMME
Doing the right thing
Every day we are trusted by customers, business partners and the communities 
we work with to do the right thing, make a difference and behave responsibly. 
That includes treating each other fairly, respecting our business partners and 
caring for our communities – leaving a legacy we can be proud of. It also 
means being transparent and acting with integrity. 
Speak Up
Speaking up is at the heart of our ethics and 
compliance programme and we continue to 
explore all opportunities for encouraging 
employees to voice their concerns or questions. 
In our 2024 employee engagement survey, 75% 
of responding UK and US employees indicated 
that they felt empowered to raise concerns and 
speak up without fear of negative consequences, 
an increase of 1% compared to 2023.
In 2024, 495 Speak Up cases were received 
across the Group, an increase of 11% from 2023. 
The Right to Respect programme that we started 
to roll out in 2023 appears to have been a key 
driver in our increased reporting, something which 
we view positively and is indicative of a healthy 
Speak Up culture. Our Speak Up reporting rate is 
in line with benchmarks.
Rates of substantiation remained consistent with 
the prior year at 40% (2023: 39%). Concerns 
about employee conduct continue to make up the 
majority of cases received, accounting for 50% of 
all cases in 2024 (2023: 51%), followed by cases 
relating to fraud, deception and dishonesty (15%), 
and Code of Ethics violations (14%).
Confirmed breaches of Balfour Beatty’s Code of 
Ethics may result in disciplinary action, including 
termination of employment for serious breaches, 
with 47 individuals leaving the business in 2024 
following substantiation of a Speak Up case. 
A substantiated breach by a supply chain partner 
of our Code of Ethics or Supplier Standards may 
result in termination of their contract. As well as 
addressing cases individually, we conduct root 
cause analysis where possible to enable us to 
take steps to prevent similar issues arising again 
in the future.
NUMBER OF SPEAK UP 
HELPLINE CASES 
NUMBER OF CASES PER 
1,000 EMPLOYEES 
444
495
196
279
292
22
23
24
20
21
In 2025, we will be providing more transparency 
to our employees on our Speak Up data and on 
the real issues we address as part of our ongoing 
efforts to demonstrate the benefits of speaking up.
Improving industry standards
The Group plays its part in supporting others 
too and strives to help improve ethical business 
standards across the industry, regularly interacting 
and supporting ethics focused industry bodies 
such as the Institute for Business Ethics and the 
Business Ethics Leadership Alliance. 
  
FIND OUT MORE INFORMATION ON OUR 
APPROACH TO MODERN SLAVERY ON 
PAGE 62
SCAN OR CLICK TO READ THE 
GROUP’S MODERN SLAVERY 
STATEMENT 2024
24.9
26.7
11.0
15.8
15.5
22
23
24
20
21
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

47
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
TAX STRATEGY
Being a responsible taxpayer 
Balfour Beatty recognises that paying taxes arising 
from its activities is an important part of how it 
supports the communities in which it operates. 
The Group makes a major contribution to the tax 
revenues of governments in the numerous territories 
in which it operates. For example, the Group’s tax 
contribution extends considerably beyond corporation 
tax and the collection of substantial amounts of 
income tax and includes the payment of 
significant employer social security contributions. 
The Group’s tax strategy, approved by the Board, 
is to sustainably minimise tax cost whilst complying 
with the law. In doing so, Balfour Beatty ensures 
it acts in accordance with its Cultural Framework, 
which provides a simple and clear view of the 
purpose, values and behaviours of the Group’s 
Build to Last strategy. The Group aims to meet 
all legal requirements, filing all appropriate tax 
returns and making tax payments accurately and 
on time. The Group’s tax strategy applies to all 
territories in which it does business. 
Tax governance 
Balfour Beatty has clear tax policies, procedures 
and controls in place which are overseen by the 
Chief Financial Officer. 
A dedicated internal Tax team, led by the Group 
Head of Tax, is responsible for the implementation 
of the Group’s tax strategy and supporting tax 
policies. Members of the Tax team are highly 
experienced with appropriate professional 
qualifications and experience which reflect the 
responsibilities required for their roles.
Tax risk appetite 
The Group manages its tax affairs in a proactive 
manner that seeks to maximise shareholder value 
and as such utilises tax incentives or opportunities 
for obtaining tax efficiencies where appropriate 
and where they support genuine commercial 
activity. The Group does not enter into artificial 
arrangements that lack commercial purpose in 
order to secure a tax advantage. The aim is to 
ensure full compliance with all statutory 
obligations and as a consequence attempt to 
minimise risk wherever possible. 
In keeping with the Corporate Criminal Offence of 
Failure to Prevent the Facilitation of Tax Evasion 
legislation, Balfour Beatty does not tolerate tax 
evasion or the facilitation of tax evasion. Balfour 
Beatty applies appropriate procedures and controls 
which seek to prevent any person acting on its 
behalf from facilitating tax evasion. 
Managing tax risk 
There are a number of factors that affect the 
Group’s tax risk and these arise both internally 
and externally. Balfour Beatty’s ability to control 
these factors varies and its internal Tax team 
works to minimise these risks to an acceptable 
level. For example: 
 
@ new and developing tax legislation is monitored 
and where it is relevant Balfour Beatty participates 
in consultations issued by the tax authorities. 
When new or changed legislation is announced, 
the impact on the Group is assessed and active 
measures are taken to ensure there are adequate 
processes in place to comply with any change;
 
@ tax risks in relation to compliance and reporting 
are managed by meeting regularly with professional 
advisers, industry groups and the tax authorities 
to both keep abreast of changes in these areas 
and to seek information on new systems and 
software; and
 
@ risk in relation to tax in general is managed 
by the internal Tax team and if a position is 
uncertain the Group may obtain third-party 
advice in order to gain clarity or support for 
a particular stance or approach. 
Any tax risks are included in the Group risk 
register as part of Balfour Beatty’s Group-wide 
approach to risk management.
Interaction with tax authorities 
Balfour Beatty’s approach to its tax affairs is 
supported by an open, honest and positive 
working relationship with the tax authorities, 
with regular dialogue. Should any dispute arise 
with regard to the interpretation and application 
of tax law, the Group is committed to addressing 
the matter promptly and resolving it in an open 
and constructive manner.
Being a responsible taxpayer
This tax strategy has been prepared and published in accordance with 
Paragraph 16 (2), Schedule 19 of the Finance Act 2016, on behalf of Balfour 
Beatty plc and all UK tax resident entities in the Balfour Beatty Group. 
Winner: Julia Buckland
Head of Benchmarking, 
Major Projects and Highways
Alongside her role as Head of Benchmarking, 
Julia’s commitment to improving honesty, 
respect, fairness and responsibility has been 
the catalyst for cultural change in Balfour 
Beatty. As a technical specialist and engineer, 
Julia brings a unique perspective and 
approach, which allows her to offer logical, 
reasoned and detailed insight into ethical 
issues. This experience, coupled with her 
extensive site-based and engineering 
background, allows her to provide a balanced, 
well-rounded perspective on the challenges 
faced both in an office and out on site. 
READ MORE ABOUT 
OUR ICON AWARDS 
EVENT ON p74
Above: Award presentation photo. (Left to right) Tracey 
Wood, Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, 
Julia Buckland, Head of Benchmarking – Major Projects and 
Highways, and Nigel Cann, Managing Director – Sizewell C. 
Walk the
Talk Award
This category celebrated a colleague who 
always acts with integrity, treats everyone 
fairly, speaks up when things aren’t right 
and helps us to make sure our business is 
worthy of the trust others place in us. 
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
48
48
SUSTAINABILITY
Building New Futures
This evolution expanded our sustainability focus 
areas to better address the evolving challenges 
and opportunities we see. It maintains a strong 
emphasis on net zero, waste reduction and 
community value, driven by the urgency of the 
climate crisis and a belief that we can achieve 
more. In addition, we have added critical new 
focus areas: supply chain integrity, nature positive, 
and employee diversity, equity, and inclusion. 
These additions reflect our understanding that 
sustainability can only be achieved through a 
truly holistic approach. 
Our commitment to mitigate and adapt to climate 
change is now underpinned by meaningful, 
science-based net zero targets that ensure we are 
on the right path. In 2024, we received independent 
validation from the Science Based Targets initiative 
(SBTi) for our near- and long-term net zero targets, 
reinforcing the ambition and achievability of our 
goals. Meanwhile, our approach to waste reduction 
has evolved into a broader focus on resource 
efficiency, reflecting our approach to tackling the 
issue from the design stage to prevent waste 
before it arises. 
In our community engagement focus area, we 
have exceeded expectations by surpassing our 
target to generate £3 billion of social value in the 
UK by 2030, five years earlier than originally 
planned. We will be setting a new target in this 
area in 2025, aiming to generate even greater 
impact and deliver more value to the communities 
we serve. 
Understanding that net zero cannot be achieved 
without also restoring and protecting the natural 
world, we have placed biodiversity – or being nature 
positive – at the heart of our strategy. As part of this, 
we committed to the UK Business & Biodiversity 
Forum’s Nature Positive Pledge in 2024, and during 
2025, we will set clear and measurable UK targets 
to halt nature loss, ensuring the natural environment 
is fully integrated into our approach. This focus on 
biodiversity enables us to enhance ecosystems and 
drive tangible improvements as part of our broader 
sustainability efforts. 
Achieving our ambitious targets requires robust 
collaboration across our supply chain. As part of 
this, we have introduced supply chain integrity as 
a new focus area in our strategy, understanding 
that ensuring the sustainability and resilience of 
our supply chain is critical to reaching our long-term 
objectives. By strengthening these partnerships, 
we are ensuring shared accountability and a unified 
approach to our sustainability commitments. 
The sixth focus area is the employee diversity, 
equity and inclusion. By fostering an organisation 
and culture that is diverse, equitable and inclusive, 
we aim to be the employer of choice for talented 
individuals, harnessing their creativity and innovation 
to drive forward our sustainability efforts and build 
a stronger, more resilient business. 
To enable progress and ensure we meet our 
sustainability targets, shown on page 49, we have 
made significant investments in our sustainability 
function, building in-house expertise in key areas 
such as energy, carbon, social impact, biodiversity, 
and materials engineering. These investments are 
delivering tangible results. As well as exceeding 
expectations against our £3 billion social value target 
in 2024, most significant decrease in carbon intensity 
dropping from 15.0 to 12.8 tCO2e per £m revenue, 
representing a 15% reduction. In addition to this, 
despite several key projects being at the peak of 
their carbon-intensive activities, we were able to 
maintain our absolute carbon emissions from last 
year, reflecting our consistent progress towards 
ambitious climate objectives and sustainable growth. 
Looking to the future, we remain unwavering in 
our mission to drive transformative change. By 
embedding our core values – Lean, Expert, Trusted, 
Safe, and Sustainable – into everything we do, we 
are positioning ourselves as the partner of choice 
for our customers and continuing to build a resilient, 
sustainable future for our industry and the 
communities we serve. 
In June 2024, we published the next evolution of our Building New Futures sustainability 
strategy, responding to the rapid changes in the sustainability agenda since 2020. 
Building 
New Futures 
Award
We want to build a better future for 
everyone, so this category celebrated an 
individual who played a key role in making 
us a more sustainable business.
Winner: Kyle Frandsen
Kyle Frandsen, Vice President, 
Sacramento, US Buildings
Kyle has passionately led on the ‘Green Apple 
Day of Service’ for 11 years – an initiative by 
the United States Green Building Council that 
brings volunteers together to host local service 
projects that make schools healthier and more 
sustainable. The impact that Kyle has brought 
to the business and our client’s communities 
through his work on this sustainability project 
are laudable. It is spectacular that Kyle’s efforts 
have not only inspired Balfour Beatty but have 
also inspired California’s Encinitas Union 
School District to carry the sustainability torch 
with amazing results – a true example of 
leaving a positive legacy.
Above: Award presentation photo. (Left to right) Jo Gilroy, 
Group Director of Sustainability, Kyle Frandsen, Vice President, 
Sacramento – US Buildings, and Philippa Spence, Managing 
Director Global Division – Ramboll.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR ICON 
AWARDS EVENT ON p74
Environmental, Social 
and Governance (ESG) 
ratings and scores
In 2024, Balfour Beatty plc achieved a 
FTSE4Good ESG score of 3.2 on a scale from 
0 to 5 (higher scores are better).
Balfour Beatty submitted a disclosure to CDP 
for 2024; however, we did not receive a 
score by the date of this publication.
CDP scores are made publicly available at: 
www.cdp.net/en/data/scores 
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

49
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
1 Measured against a 2020 baseline and verified by the SBTi.
2 Measured against a 2020 baseline, not verified by the SBTi as the 
SBTi only validate our near (2030) and long term (2050) targets.
3 Targets to be set in 2025.
4 Measured against a 2021 baseline.
5 As the Group has not yet quantified climate-related risk and opportunity 
metrics, cross-industry climate-related metrics from the TCFD guidance 
for all sectors have not been applied. For more information refer to the 
climate-risk and opportunities section (see pages 107 to 115).
6 In 2021 Balfour Beatty set a target to deliver £3 billion in social value by 
2030. In 2024 as part of the evolved sustainability strategy this social 
value target was updated to be delivered five years early, in 2025.
Our sustainability strategy - Building New Futures
Our focus areas
Our commitments
Our targets5
Protecting and enhancing the environment
Climate 
change
Supply chain 
integrity
Mitigate and adapt 
to climate change
Empower 
sustainable 
suppliers and 
champion ethical 
practices
42% reduction in 
Scope 1 and 2 carbon 
emissions by 20301
Net zero Scope 1 and 2 
carbon emissions by 
20452
Net zero Scope 1, 2 
and 3 carbon 
emissions by 20501
25% reduction in 
Scope 3 carbon 
emissions from 
purchased goods and 
services by 20301
Deliver on our clear 
and measurable 
targets3 to halt nature 
loss by 2030
Nature positive 
principles embedded 
across our UK 
operations to support 
nature recovery by 
2050
£3 billion of social 
value created in the 
UK by 20254,6
Eliminate 
non‑hazardous 
excavation waste to 
landfill in the UK by 
2030
Zero avoidable waste 
in the UK by 2040
Zero avoidable waste 
in the US by 2050
50% Increase in the 
number of female 
colleagues% in the UK 
by 20304
60% Increase in 
minority ethnic and 
black representation 
in the UK by 20304
Nature 
positive
Community 
engagement
Protect and enhance 
the natural
environment
Deliver long lasting 
social benefits for 
the communities we 
operate in
Resource 
efficiency
Employee 
diversity, 
equity 
and inclusion
Deliver resource 
efficiency through 
our operations
Create a diverse 
and inclusive 
organisation
Leaving a positive social legacy
SCAN OR CLICK TO READ MORE ABOUT OUR 
APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY AND 
EXPLORE OUR BEST CASE STUDIES
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
50
50
SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED
In 2024, Balfour Beatty’s near and long-term 
science-based targets were validated by the SBTi. 
This provides a clear carbon reduction pathway 
focused on addressing key activities and 
emissions sources across the business. 
Balfour Beatty commits to:
 
@ achieving a 42% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 
carbon emissions by 2030;
 
@ net zero Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions by 
2045; and 
 
@ net zero for Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions by 2050.
In 2024, we saw a small decrease in the Group’s 
absolute carbon emissions and a 15% reduction in 
carbon emissions intensity, using the market-based 
methodology. 
Of the Group’s Scope 1 and 2 emissions, 91% 
were Scope 1 and 9% Scope 2. Balfour Beatty’s 
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions are predominantly 
from the use of diesel in vehicles, plant and equipment. 
Market-based
Balfour Beatty’s total Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions in 2024 were 143,705 tCO2e. This is a 
decrease from 2023 of 1,020 tCO2e, representing 
a fractional reduction change of less than 1%. 
Market-based GHG emissions intensity also 
showed a reduction from 15.0 to 12.8 tCO2e/£m 
revenue, an 15% reduction. Market-based 
methodology uses actual emissions intensity data 
from the sources of energy an organisation has 
purposefully chosen to calculate carbon emissions 
from electricity usage.
Location-based
Balfour Beatty’s total Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions 
in 2024 were 147
,296 tCO2e. This is an increase 
from 2023 by 835 tCO2e, representing an increase 
of less than 1%. The Group’s location‑based GHG 
emissions intensity decreased from 15.2 tCO2e/£m 
revenue in 2023 to 13.1 tCO2e/£m revenue in 2024, 
a reduction of 13%. Location‑based methodology 
uses average emissions intensity data to calculate 
carbon emissions from electricity usage.
Approach to carbon 
emissions reduction
In 2024, Balfour Beatty set out in detail its approach 
to emissions reduction in its PPN 06/21 Carbon 
Reduction Plan (CRP) at: 
www.balfourbeatty.com/carbon-reduction-plan. 
Although specific to UK operations, the principles 
contained within the CRP apply to global operations 
where Balfour Beatty has operational control or 
significant influence. 
Plant, fleet and generators account for 92% of 
Balfour Beatty’s Scope 1 and 2 emissions, to 
address this we are taking a three-pronged 
approach to emissions reduction: efficiency, 
electrification and alternative fuels. 
 
Climate change
Tailoring battery storage solutions to suit project needs
Our Energy Management team has developed a 
deep understanding of battery capability which 
will underpin our ability to effectively charge and 
use electric plant, which will be a big focus 
in 2025.
There are a number of factors which influence 
a battery’s performance, and it is important to make 
data-based decisions that account for a range of 
elements including seasonal weather and 
temperature variations across the UK, mobilisation 
timescales and daily fluctuations in demand. 
To determine how these various factors impact 
battery use and decide on the technology and 
timing for deployment, the team has conducted 
extensive trials to analyse the performance of 
batteries from our existing fleet. In the process, 
they have gained a detailed understanding of 
how each of these batteries work, their 
efficiency and opportunities and barriers to 
adoption in different site locations. Different use 
cases have been identified for each technology 
type and methodologies developed to measure 
and monitor each battery’s efficiency.
Several key lessons have been learned including 
how to configure batteries to meet the site 
power demands and specific operational 
conditions, how to select appropriate battery 
technology to best fit generator sizing to 
optimise efficiencies and developing a best 
practice approach to monitoring. These insights 
have driven improvement both within our own 
projects but also in the supply chain partners 
with whom we work.
We have not stopped our research and will 
continue developing our understanding through 
strong collaboration with original equipment 
manufacturers and suppliers. This will ensure 
that as new technology comes to market, we 
are well placed to make well-informed site 
deployment decisions and support our clients 
to make cost-effective decisions. 
Focus areas:
SCAN OR CLICK TO EXPLORE 
OUR BEST CASE STUDIES
BELOW
Battery energy storage system used 
on Balfour Beatty's sites in the UK.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

51
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
The site energy efficiency dashboard
Efficiency is part of our three-pronged approach 
to reducing carbon emissions, alongside 
electrification and alternative fuels. To help our 
site teams understand how they are using 
energy in order to identify how they can be 
more efficient, we wanted to provide them with 
data on how they are using energy. 
To do this, we had to overcome a number of 
challenges, including: 
 
@ a lack of aggregated and accessible real-time 
data making it hard to identify efficiency 
opportunities across fuel consumption, 
plant utilisation and energy use;
 
@ a lack of tools to monitor and manage a sites 
carbon footprint effectively; and
 
@ monitoring of equipment to understand if 
it is being properly utilised.
To address these challenges, we developed 
the Site Energy Efficiency Dashboard (SEED), 
which is an innovative tool in our industry. 
The easy-to-use tool brings together energy 
consumption data from several sources to 
help our teams to:
 
@ make decisions that reduce energy 
consumption;
 
@ identify underutilised plant and take actions 
to optimise usage;
 
@ identify assets that are not working efficiently 
and address issues;
 
@ discuss fuel efficiency during monthly project 
reviews; and
 
@ identify training requirements to support 
efficient energy use.
Over time, we will be expanding SEED to 
capture data from more assets, providing 
further opportunities to improve efficiency 
and reduce carbon emissions.
GHG reporting methodology 
and assurance
Balfour Beatty discloses energy, carbon and 
related data aligned to the UK Government 
Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting 
requirements (SECR), covering all seven UN 
Framework Convention on Climate Change/Kyoto 
gases, and includes data from certain joint 
ventures and joint operations in line with the 
standards set out in our sustainability reporting 
criteria, which is available at: www.balfourbeatty.
com/sustainabilityreporting
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions were calculated 
using the UK Government, US Environmental 
Protection Agency (EPA) and International Energy 
Agency’s (IEA) most current conversion factors to 
determine equivalent tonnes of carbon dioxide 
(tCO2e) that include Global Warming Potential 
rates from the Intergovernmental Panel on 
Climate Change (IPCC) assessment reports based 
on a 100-year timeframe. To meet this, the Group 
has determined and reported all direct emissions 
it is responsible for within the organisational 
boundary set and does not believe there are 
any material omissions.
Balfour Beatty’s Scope 1 and 2 GHG emission 
sources include emissions from assets that are 
otherwise not referred to across the rest of the 
financial statements, such as energy provided by 
landlords and customers that Balfour Beatty does 
not directly procure.
PwC LLP was engaged to undertake an independent 
limited assurance engagement of the Group’s 
Scope 1 and 2 emissions and resulting emissions 
intensity (expressed as a ratio of emissions to 
revenue), reporting to Balfour Beatty plc using 
the assurance standards ISAE 3000 (Revised) 
and ISAE 3410 over the GHG data that has been 
highlighted in this report with the symbol Ⓐ. 
PwC LLP's full statement is available 
at: www.balfourbeatty.com/ILA_2024
Market-based methodology
Since 2020, alongside the location-based method, 
Balfour Beatty has reported against the GHG 
Protocol Scope 2 market-based reporting methodology. 
This method allows the application of an emissions 
factor of zero tCO2e per kWh to supply contracts 
from suppliers of electricity purchased from 
renewable sources with a guarantee of origin 
certificate. For example, in 2024 in the UK 
c. 34,474 MWh of green tariff electricity was 
procured through the Group’s utility procurement 
contract. A residual mix emission factor is applied 
to electricity where a REGO is not available. For 
electricity which does not come from a renewable 
source and a country-specific residual mix emission 
factor is not available, Balfour Beatty has applied 
either the appropriate supplier factor based on the 
supplier’s published fuel mix where it is known 
and can be evidenced, or the country average 
electricity emission factor provided by the UK 
Government, EPA or IEA (as appropriate).
Scope 3 and outside 
of scope emissions
Scope 3 emissions and biogenic emissions have 
been prepared using the GHG Protocol Scope 3 
guidance. As part of the compilation of a full GHG 
inventory for submission for validation to the SBTi, 
a review was undertaken for both biogenic emissions 
and forest, land and agriculture (FLAG) emissions. 
Outside of scope emissions are detailed in the 
table on page 54. FLAG emissions have been 
prepared in alignment with the GHG Protocol 
Land Sector and Removals guidance and the 
Draft for Pilot Testing and Review.
Focus areas:
BELOW
A screenshot of Site Energy Efficiency Dashboard.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

52
52
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Syntech biofuel
Alternative fuels have been identified as key 
to our Scope 1 and 2 Science Based Targets 
initiative (SBTi) validated carbon reduction 
pathway and are important in our ability to 
reduce emissions now whilst preparing for 
low-carbon plant options to become more 
widely available and feasible for use at scale.
During 2024, working with our strategic plant 
hire partners and Original Equipment 
Manufacturers (OEMs), we have been trialling 
a sustainable biofuel produced by Syntech. 
Syntech biofuel is a truly sustainable alternative 
to HVO fuel as it is produced in the UK and 
100% sourced from UK waste cooking oil. It 
can be used as a 100% drop-in replacement for 
diesel in engines with OEM agreement, which 
provides an 80 – 90% reduction in carbon 
emissions. It can also be blended with diesel 
to support emissions reductions.
We have agreements to use the biofuel with 
several OEMs and suppliers and have an 
established framework volume, price and 
warranty arrangement for Balfour Beatty 
and associated supply chain use. 
Balfour Beatty co-funded a deep dive¹ into 
HVO in 2024, and following the publication of 
the report in June we reviewed and updated 
our position statement² on HVO. Our position 
remains that we have chosen not to promote 
HVO use at this time.
SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED
Climate change continued
Approach for Group carbon reporting
Balfour Beatty’s approach for Group carbon reporting is set out in the following diagram. To learn more, please read our sustainability 
reporting criteria at: www.balfourbeatty.com/sustainabilityreporting 
OUR DIVISIONS
Construction Services
Support Services
Infrastructure Investments
OPERATIONAL CONTROL (FULL AUTHORITY)
Balfour Beatty uses the operational control GHG 
consolidation approach, applying only the guidance 
explicit in the GHG Protocol. The Group accounts for 
100% of GHG data from operations over which it has full 
authority in Scopes 1 and 2 with their associated Scope 3 
value chain emissions.
SCOPE 1 AND 2 GHG EMISSIONS
ALL RELEVANT SCOPE 3 CATEGORIES
SCOPE 1 AND 2 GHG EMISSIONS 
ALL RELEVANT SCOPE 3 CATEGORIES
SCOPE 3 CATEGORY 15: INVESTMENTS
ENHANCED REPORTING CRITERIA
Balfour Beatty includes Scope 1 and 2 emissions of 
certain joint operations and unincorporated joint ventures 
where it has been concluded that neither party has full 
authority in accordance with the GHG protocol guidance, 
but in line with the enhanced reporting criteria where 
Balfour Beatty believes that it exerts considerable 
influence over operating policies and purchasing 
decisions, including those impacting carbon emissions. 
Balfour Beatty therefore deems it appropriate to include 
such operations within the reporting boundary as it has 
operational control in line with the enhanced reporting 
criteria. All emissions from these operations are included.
VALUE CHAIN
Direct emissions from equity investments and 
incorporated joint ventures are accounted for as 
proportional emissions that occur in the reporting year 
within Scope 3, Category 15 (Investments) as are any 
other joint operations where the Group does not have 
considerable influence over operating policies, purchasing 
decisions or sustainability performance improvement actions.
Joint operation/
unincorporated joint venture
Incorporated joint venture
Does Balfour Beatty have 
full authority to introduce 
and implement operating 
policies in the shared 
operation?
Yes
No
100% Balfour Beatty 
operations
Projects that are joint ventures or joint operations with Balfour Beatty 
alongside other partners 
Equity investments
Focus areas:
1 www.actionsustainability.com/resources/hvo-guide-launch/
2 www.balfourbeatty.com/media/0ouj2nyi/hvo-positioningpaper-2024.pdf
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

53
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Offsetting
Balfour Beatty does not, at present, offset 
any GHG emissions arising from the Group’s 
operations, on the basis that there are significant 
opportunities to abate GHG emissions across 
Scopes 1, 2 and 3 through implementing 
efficiencies, modern methods of construction 
and the adoption of low-carbon technologies 
and materials. As the Group has committed to 
a near-term science-based target and net zero 
target aligned to the business ambition for 1.5°C 
campaign via the SBTi, should any offsetting be 
decided to be undertaken by the Group in future, 
this would abide by the Oxford Principles*. 
Balfour Beatty also recognises the role large 
organisations can take in ‘insetting’ GHG emissions 
by implementing reduced or low-carbon solutions 
within the Group’s value chain and supporting 
the decarbonisation of the construction sector. 
Insetting is the reduction of GHG emissions 
through investing in projects that sequester or 
reduce carbon emissions within a company’s own 
supply chain or operational boundary and focuses 
on internal actions that directly contribute to 
emission reductions or removals. 
* 
www.smithschool.ox.ac.uk/sites/default/
files/2022-01/Oxford-Offsetting-Principles-2020.pdf
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions, baseline year (2020) to 2024
Carbon emissions
Baseline year
 2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
Absolute (tCO2e)
Scope 1 – operational control boundary (full authority)
90,850
90,180
83,456
77,854
71,246
Scope 1 – applying enhanced reporting criteria2
20,117
30,772
48,223
54,736
59,632
Total Scope 1
110,967
120,952
131,679
132,590
130,878Ⓐ
Scope 2 – operational control boundary (full authority)
12,668
17,245
12,296
10,628
15,782
Scope 2 – applying enhanced reporting criteria2
534
775
2,634
3,243
635
Total Scope 2 (location-based)
13,202
18,020
14,930
13,871
16,417Ⓐ
Scope 2 – operational control boundary (full authority)
11,859
16,399
11,650
6,584
7,239
Scope 2 – applying enhanced reporting criteria2
788
791
3,903
5,550
5,587
Total Scope 2 (market-based)
12,647
17,190
15,553
12,134
12,826Ⓐ
Scope 1 and 2 – operational control boundary (full authority)
103,518
107,425
95,752
88,482
87,028
Scope 1 and 2 – applying enhanced reporting criteria2
20,651
31,547
50,857
57,979
60,268
Total Scope 1 and 2 (location-based)
124,169
138,972
146,609
146,461
147, 296
Scope 1 and 2 – operational control boundary (full authority)
102,709
106,579
95,106
84,439
78,485
Scope 1 and 2 – applying enhanced reporting criteria2
20,905
31,563
52,126
60,286
65,220
Total Scope 1 and 2 (market-based)
123,614
138,142
147,232
144,725
143,705
Intensity (tCO2e/£m revenue3)
Scope 1 and 2 – operational control boundary (full authority)
11.9
14.2
11.7
12.3
10.2
Scope 1 and 2 – applying enhanced reporting criteria2
64.8
99.8
50.4
20.7
22.8
Total Scope 1 and 2 intensity (location-based)
13.8
17.6
16.0
15.2
13.1Ⓐ
Scope 1 and 2 – operational control boundary (full authority)
11.8
14.1
11.7
11.8
9.2
Scope 1 and 2 – applying enhanced reporting criteria2
65.6
99.8
51.7
21.5
24.7
Total Scope 1 and 2 intensity (market-based)
13.8
17.5
16.1
15.0
12.8Ⓐ
1 The Group’s Greenhouse Gas operational control boundary, metrics and descriptions can be found in the Balfour Beatty Sustainability Reporting Guidance: www.balfourbeatty.com/sustainabilityreporting
2 All emissions of certain joint operations and unincorporated joint ventures where neither party has operational control over the joint operation, but Balfour Beatty has a considerable influence over its operating 
policies and purchasing decisions, have been included in the Group’s consolidated Scope 1 and 2 emissions (including intensity calculations) in line with enhanced reporting criteria. This is in addition to the 
emissions for Group entities for which Balfour Beatty has full authority in line with the GHG protocol operational control approach. For more detail, please refer to the decision-making process diagram on page 52.
3 To calculate the carbon intensity of the Group’s Scope 1 and 2 total emissions, an adjustment to the final revenue has been made from £10,015,332,508 to £11,203,986,731. This includes intercompany revenue 
and the revenue of certain joint operations and unincorporated joint ventures over which the Group has a considerable influence over their operating policies and purchasing decisions in line with enhanced 
reporting criteria and in addition to the revenue of entities which align fully to the GHG protocol operational control approach. To calculate the carbon intensity of the Group’s Scope 1 and 2 emissions from 
entities which align fully to the GHG protocol operational control approach an adjustment to the final revenue has been made from £10,015,332,508 to £8,562,929,978, which includes intercompany revenue.
 
Ⓐ Included within PwC LLP's limited assurance scope.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
54
54
Climate change continued
Scope 3 emissions
Scope 3 emissions arise from Balfour Beatty’s 
value chain and investments (including Gammon) 
and are not directly controlled by the Group, as 
set out in ‘Approach for Group carbon reporting’ 
on page 52. As Balfour Beatty has validated its 
science-based targets aligned to the Business 
Ambition for 1.5°C campaign with the SBTi, 
the Group has prepared Scope 3 information 
as disclosed in the table below. Implementing a 
business-wide assessment, it was determined 
that 13 of the 15 Scope 3 categories are relevant 
to the Group’s operations. The exceptions are 
Category 10: Processing of sold products and 
Category 14: Franchises, as the Group does not 
sell intermediate products that are processed by 
downstream companies or operate franchises. 
All relevant categories are calculated and included 
in the Group’s Scope 3 GHG inventory. Scope 3 
emissions are measured using the GHG Protocol 
Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Standard. 
Scope 3 GHG emissions, baseline year (2020) to 2024
Assessment status
Baseline year 
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
Scope 3 emissions (tCO2e)
Cat 1: Purchased goods and services
Relevant, Calculated
2,836,477
3,076,315
3,023,913
3,432,952
5,326,854
Cat 2: Capital goods
Relevant, Calculated
13,184
19,954
17,330
35,866
14,496
Cat 3: Fuel- and energy-related activities (not 
included in Scope 1 and 2)
Relevant, Calculated
28,082
35,846
36,796
36,912
37,461
Cat 4: Upstream transportation and distribution
Relevant, Calculated
164,572
154,240
62,013
110,016
121,096
Cat 5: Waste generated in operations
Relevant, Calculated
2,538
5,228
1,551
2,460
1,829
Cat 6: Business travel
Relevant, Calculated
2,023
2,589
2,628
7,072
5,653
Cat 7: Employee commuting
Relevant, Calculated
1,055
2,110
2,137
2,091
2,225
Cat 8: Upstream leased assets
Relevant, Calculated
Included in Scope 1 and 2
Cat 9: Downstream transportation and distribution
Relevant, Calculated
Included in Cat: 4
Cat 11: Use of sold products
Relevant, Calculated
118
137
235
244
156
Cat 12: End-of-life treatment of sold products
Relevant, Calculated
16
18
16
17
10
Cat 13: Downstream leased assets
Relevant, Calculated
1,434
1,225
1,565
1,834
1,000
Cat 15: Investments
Relevant, Calculated
247,422
269,919
287,680
247,048
242,345
Total Scope 3
3,296,921
3,567,581
3,435,864
3,876,512
5,753,125
Total Scope 3 intensity tCO2e/£m revenue
Relevant, Calculated
339
420
345
327
470
Biogenic emissions
Relevant, Calculated
12,527
3,828
5,838
8,263
8,554
FLAG emissions
Relevant, Calculated
646,198
859,158
390,158
1,079,492
274,904
1 To calculate the carbon intensity of the Group’s Scope 3 total emissions, an adjustment to the final revenue has been made from £10,015,332,508 to £12,271,546,592. In addition to the revenue figure of 
£11,203,986,731 used for the Group’s Scope 1 and 2 total emissions (see Note 3 to the table on page 53) and in line with enhanced reporting criteria, this includes the Group’s proportional share of the revenue of: 
(i) incorporated joint ventures and (ii) certain joint operations and unincorporated joint ventures where the Group does not have considerable influence over their operating policies or purchasing decisions.
SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED
Approach for Scope 3 reporting
In 2023 Balfour Beatty stated its Scope 3 
emissions inventory for the first time. We will 
continue to state our Scope 3 inventory year on 
year with a view to continuously improving our 
reporting methodology to allow us to accurately 
report on our Scope 3 emissions reduction 
performance once the maturity of industry 
datasets allows for ‘actual’ emissions reporting. 
The spend methodology currently used does not 
allow us to give an accurate picture of performance, 
as it does not consider the actual embodied 
carbon factors of the materials we are purchasing.
Improvements in data quality, moving from 
established estimation methodologies to actual 
data and more granular data, will allow Balfour 
Beatty to focus its efforts on GHG reductions in 
the Scope 3 categories over which the Group can 
have the most impact. Primary data collection 
with a higher degree of specificity allows the 
Group to target the most material Scope 3 
categories of Category 1: Purchased goods and 
services and Category 15: Investments.
Lack of availability of primary data and corresponding 
embodied carbon for Category 1: Purchased goods 
and services continues to be a construction 
industry-wide issue. Not having the ability to 
understand GHG emissions in a business’ value 
chain is a potential barrier to embodied GHG 
emissions reductions from high-carbon products 
such as steel, concrete and cement. Read about 
how we are working with our supply chain to 
decarbonise carbon-intensive materials on page 61
. 
In 2024, the Group continued to improve its 
approach to Scope 3, biogenic, and forest, land 
and agriculture (FLAG) emissions, having 
compiled a full GHG inventory from the 2020 
baseline year that has now been validated by 
the SBTi.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

55
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Action
Achieving net zero emissions throughout the 
Group’s entire supply chain will require effective 
and co-ordinated collaboration across diverse 
stakeholders. The Group’s two most material 
categories of Scope 3; Category 1: Purchased 
goods and services and Category 15: Investments, 
are the primary focus of its Scope 3 emissions 
abatement measures.
Energy
In 2024, energy consumption (MWh) increased 
by 1% to 628,374 MWh from 2023. 
Balfour Beatty continues to focus on energy 
efficiency and in 2024 the following measures 
were implemented:
 
@ 66 EcoNet installations – reducing out of hours 
energy use and enable downsizing 
of generators; 
 
@ EcoSense cabins – 65% of cabin and welfare 
units are energy efficient, using around 30% 
less energy than traditional cabins; and
 
@ 69 battery hybrid generator setups which 
enable the generator to stop running during 
periods of low power demand, to reduce fuel 
use and allow periods of quiet operation, 
particularly overnight.
Through the deployment of renewable energy 
generation solutions, Balfour Beatty generated 
369 MWh of renewable energy in 2024. This 
included the use of a hydrogen generator paired 
with cabin mounted solar panels to provide power 
to the satellite compound at Canvey Island flood 
defence project in the UK. 
The use of renewable energy also increased in 2024:
 
@ 34,474 MWh of REGO-certified grid electricity 
(up 23% from 2023); and
 
@ 138 MWh of green hydrogen-generated energy. 
Starting in April 2024, the Group transitioned its 
utility procurement contract to Drax for zero-carbon 
electricity. Since a full calendar year has not yet 
passed with this supplier, and the REGO retirement 
period is incomplete, the associated REGOs have 
not been retired. As a result, there are no Ofgem 
public records as yet. However, the data has been 
tested and confirmed as part of this tariff, allowing 
us to state a zero-carbon emission factor for 
this electricity.
During 2023 and 2024 the Balfour Beatty Energy 
Management Unit (EMU) audited all energy 
consuming assets under UK operational control, 
in line with the requirements of the Energy 
Savings Opportunity Scheme (ESOS). The audit 
covered temporary site compounds, permanent 
property, construction plant and depots, and 
identified 35 MWh and £10.8 million of energy and 
financial savings respectively. The recommendations 
informed an energy action plan and several 
strategic projects to support the plan, including:
 
@ the development, and introduction, of a Site 
Energy Efficiency Dashboard to provide 
operational teams with key energy efficiency 
metrics across mobile plant, road fleet and site 
temporary power supplies. See page 51 for 
more information;
 
@ development of an automated energy demand 
management system, currently under trial, 
for modular accommodation deployed on 
site compounds;
 
@ development of additional minimum energy 
efficiency standards for solar and hybrid tower 
lights, hybrid mobile accommodation units and 
the hybridisation of diesel generators; and
 
@ ongoing development of digital energy 
efficiency deployment tools, including the 
introduction of a new dewatering pump 
selection tool.
Energy use in MWh
Fuel MWh
Baseline year
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
Electricity purchased – green tariff
12,536
15,812
16,096
26,627
34,474
Electricity purchased – other
35,258
48,846
46,423
34,877
35,247
Electricity (generated from 
solar renewables)
27
49
161
7
231
Electricity (generated from 
green hydrogen)
–
–
413
109
138
Total electricity
47,821
64,707
63,093
61,620
70,090
Diesel B7
143,687
131,719
348,137
419,783
422,947
Unleaded petrol
57,642
72,369
77,298
74,161
75,149
Gas oil (red diesel)
236,750
268,115
100,515
48,181
30,878
Natural gas
8,147
14,861
13,106
12,341
12,329
GTL
–
3,320
3,612
3,794
5,085
Industrial gases
2,990
2,592
3,021
3,500
2,764
Boiler fuel
410
426
380
497
737
E85 petrol
166
125
268
173
0
LPG
64
64
65
166
8,057
100% mineral diesel
534
340
438
129
143
HVO
–
32
82
15
178
Diesel B20
55
–
–
7
0
100% mineral petrol
2
6
–
–
0
Biodiesel (first generation)
–
27
–
–
17
Total fuels
450,447
493,996
546,922
562,747
558,284
Global total
498,268
558,703
610,015
624,367
628,374
UK energy use % of global total
73%
72%
77%
80%
82%
Energy intensity 
(MWh/£m revenue)
55.4
70.8
66.6
64.8
56.1
1 
The figures in this table include energy from the Group’s consolidated boundary aligned to the methodology referred to in Note 1 to the 
Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions table on page 53.
2 
The MWh per £m revenue is calculated using the adjusted revenue figure disclosed in Note 3 to the Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions table 
on page 53.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
56
56
For Balfour Beatty, a holistic approach is imperative 
for a sustainable future. To address climate change 
we must also tackle the degradation of the natural 
world, including biodiversity loss. These crises are 
deeply interconnected, each exacerbating the 
other. Human activities that harm ecosystems 
also drive climate change, while climate change 
further degrades natural habitats. 
In 2024, Balfour Beatty committed to protect and 
enhance the natural environment in our Building 
New Futures sustainability strategy. We also signed 
the UK Business & Biodiversity Forum’s Nature 
Positive Pledge, committing the UK business to 
support the restoration of our planet’s life 
support systems.
The Nature Positive goal is to globally halt and 
reverse nature loss (as measured from a 2020 
baseline), so that by 2030, nature is visibly and 
measurably on the path of remediation and by 
2050, it has recovered sufficiently to sustainably 
support future generations.
The Nature Positive goal aligns with our Build 
to Last Sustainable value: to act responsibly to 
protect and enhance our planet and society. 
It is a mindset that puts nature at the forefront 
of decisions and actions. Nature Positive is an 
approach for our business to operate with a better 
understanding of our exposure to nature risks 
and dependencies and to join in a collective 
endeavour, to reverse nature loss.
Our pledge commits Balfour Beatty to:
 
@ applying the mitigation hierarchy across the 
business, i.e. avoid, minimise, compensate;
 
@ generating long-term benefits for nature;
 
@ ensuring Nature Positive actions are additional 
to what would have happened without 
these actions;
 
@ apply a precautionary approach where there 
is a lack of evidence or information;
 
@ develop and publish a Nature Positive Plan;
 
@ identify a nature baseline to assess impact 
against; and
 
@ set SMART and costed targets to address the 
business dependencies and impacts on nature.
The business risks associated with nature and 
biodiversity loss are extensive: physical, regulatory, 
commercial, reputational, financial, and social. For 
Balfour Beatty, responsible risk management is a 
cornerstone of our business. Extreme weather 
events, widespread crop failures, food and resource 
shortages, flooding, wildfires, mass migration, 
civil and political unrest, shifting socio-economicpolitical priorities, and supply chain and workforce 
disruption are all forecast to increase with varying 
levels of severity and frequency over the coming 
years. By restoring and enhancing the natural 
environment, we are supporting the healthy 
ecosystems that are essential for the future 
prosperity of communities and economies in 
the UK and around the world. 
 
Nature positive
Restoring woodlands at the Harewood Estate
The Harewood Estate in West Yorkshire is 4,000 
acres of ancient and semi-natural woodland, 
wood pasture parkland, arable farmland, ponds, 
lakes and wetlands, designed by Lancelot 
‘Capability’ Brown in the 18th century. It has 
been home to the Lascelles family since 1738, 
with the Estate now managed by Ben Lascelles, 
an ecologist by profession. As part of the Estate’s 
ambitious conservation programme to restore 
parklands and woodlands, 24 Balfour Beatty 
volunteers successfully planted 1,500 trees in 
just six hours, during a volunteering event that 
took place in 2024. The conservation programme 
not only aims to repair and preserve the 
environment but also increase the biodiversity 
and habitats for local wildlife. 
The team’s efforts were greatly received 
by Harewood Estate who shared the 
following feedback:
We are writing to express our 
gratitude for your exceptional 
contribution this week at Harewood 
Estate... We are truly fortunate to 
have volunteers like you who are 
willing to invest time and energy 
into projects that have a lasting 
impact on our planet.”
Jay O’Donoghue
Forestry Foreman, Harewood Estate
SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED
Focus areas:
SCAN OR CLICK TO EXPLORE 
OUR BEST CASE STUDIES
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

57
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Our early progress in this area has been driven 
by our UK in-house Natural Environment team of 
ecology, biodiversity, and arboriculture specialists. 
They have been working closely with our customers 
to survey, analyse risks, and deliver mitigation 
strategies to protect and enhance biodiversity 
in and around the projects we deliver.
Across all our UK SCAPE framework projects, 
we provide every customer with a report detailing 
project-specific feasible options and available 
measures to achieve biodiversity net gain (BNG), 
on- or off-site. In 2024, we worked in collaboration 
with a remote sensing artificial intelligence 
platform, AIDash, to significantly increase the 
speed at which we can complete BNG options 
reports for SCAPE and other projects that require 
a BNG feasibility assessment. By integrating AI 
systems into our site analysis, we can focus our 
efforts on providing thoroughly researched 
recommendations, tailored to each project and 
its landscape. This offers more efficient outcomes, 
benefiting both customers and nature.
We are continuing to invest in building in-house 
technical capacity and developing internal training 
programmes to ensure sufficient levels of business 
expertise and for the successful delivery of nature 
enhancements. Working on the M25 Junction 10/
A3 Wisley Interchange improvement scheme for 
National Highways, we are providing the technical 
expertise required to build the UK’s first heathland 
green bridge. As part of the same scheme, in 
2024, we delivered extensive heathland restoration, 
woodland enhancement, ancient woodland soil 
translocation, and acid grassland enhancement.
We are currently undertaking work to gain a 
deeper understanding of the impacts we have 
on nature across our value chain. As this work 
progresses and our understanding matures, we 
will set clear and measurable targets for our UK 
business to halt and reverse net nature loss. 
Environmental impacts and 
risk management
Balfour Beatty continues to maintain a robust 
business management system for identifying 
and managing environmental impacts and risks 
at an organisational and project level. 
In 2024, we refreshed our in-house Environmental 
Site Awareness training course to reinforce the 
principles of our Environment What3Things – a 
short, digestible summary of three key measures 
that must be in place to manage environmental 
impact from our operations over seven areas of 
risk: pollution prevention, nuisance, waste 
management, materials management, wildlife, 
archaeology and cultural heritage, and working 
near water. We also included environmental 
incident performance reporting in our Bridging the 
Gap action plans. Bridging the Gap is a framework 
which has informed the action plans we have 
developed with each of our Business Units to 
focus our efforts where we can have the biggest 
impact and chart a course to deliver our 
commitments and targets.
Balfour Beatty was not subject to any prosecutions 
by environmental regulators in 2024.
In our evolved Building New Futures sustainability 
strategy, we set out our new approach to resource 
efficiency. With the construction sector responsible 
for an estimated one-third of the world’s overall 
waste and extracting nearly 40 billion tonnes of 
raw materials from the planet each year¹, it is 
clear that we need to shift the dial from managing 
the waste we produce to implementing design 
driven circular economy principles that eliminate 
waste and pollution and circulate products and 
materials at their highest value.
Collaborate
Relentlessly Award
This category was for an individual who champions 
collaboration to create high-performing teams. 
Winner: Pippa Jordan
Ecology Technical Specialist, Highways 
Pippa has played a crucial role in the M25 Junction 10 project. Her leadership 
and collaboration have ensured strict adherence to environmental 
legislation, balancing business and ecological needs. She has been 
instrumental in implementing the Ecological Inspection Permit process, 
co-ordinating with stakeholders and leading innovative initiatives. Pippa’s 
dedication has been key to the project’s success, managing complex 
ecological commitments, overseeing sensitive site clearance, and 
initiating habitat enhancement works. Her ability to collaborate, guide 
teams, and navigate challenges has made her an exemplary environmental 
professional, deserving recognition for her relentless commitment to 
the project’s environmental goals.
READ MORE ABOUT 
OUR ICON AWARDS 
EVENT ON p74
Above: Award presentation photo. (Left to right) Phil Clifton, Divisional CEO – Major Projects, 
Highways and Ground Engineering, Pippa Jordan, Ecology Technical Specialist – Highways, and 
Nicola Bell MBE Executive Director, Major Projects – National Highways.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
58
58
Zero avoidable waste 
Part of our new approach to resource efficiency 
is to implement the Construction Leadership 
Council’s zero avoidable waste routemap and to 
support this, we have committed to:
 
@ eliminating non-hazardous excavation waste 
to landfill by 2030;
 
@ achieving zero avoidable waste in the UK 
by 2040; and
 
@ achieving zero avoidable waste in the US 
by 2050.
Through the implementation of our Bridging the 
Gap sustainability action plans, each Business 
Unit sets resource efficiency improvement actions 
based on the business’s waste profile and 
performance. 
Summary of 2024 performance
Non-hazardous waste
Total waste generated increased by 3% from 
2023 to 2024, with the most significant increase 
being non-hazardous construction waste (29%). 
Non-hazardous construction waste intensity 
(tonnes/£m) increased by 43%. Non-hazardous 
demolition waste increased slightly by 3%, while 
non-hazardous excavation waste decreased 
by 0.06%. 
1 pubs.geoscienceworld.org/msa/elements/articleabstract/18/5/327/619766/Sustainable-Sourcing-of-RawMaterials-for
 
Resource efficiency
Hazardous waste
Overall, hazardous waste decreased by 7% from 
2023 to 2024. 
Waste reporting methodology
Reported waste data is for UK operations. In line 
with how we report GHG emissions, Balfour 
Beatty now excludes the Gammon business from 
waste reporting on the same operational control 
basis that it is excluded from carbon reporting. 
Refer to the ‘
Approach for Group carbon reporting’ 
on page 52. US waste data is omitted until UK 
and US datasets are comparable.
In the UK, information about the types and 
quantities of waste generated by Balfour Beatty 
activities is captured for each project via our 
in-house reporting tool using records of waste 
removed from site by our waste supply chain and 
subcontractors. Records of waste movements 
from sites including types and quantities are 
collated to generate overall waste performance 
data. Waste data includes waste that is removed 
from sites and premises and is managed off site.
Balfour Beatty reports waste under four categories: 
construction, demolition, excavation and premises 
waste, which includes waste generated from 
offices and manufacturing facilities. 
Balfour Beatty engages a variety of waste contractors 
and management routes across its operations and 
works closely with them to identify opportunities 
to implement sustainable waste management 
solutions. The options available can be dependent 
on local waste infrastructure. 
All UK suppliers and subcontractors engaged by 
Balfour Beatty to manage waste are subject to 
Supplier Sustainability Conditions which require 
full compliance with waste duty of care legislation 
and for suppliers that make their own arrangements 
for waste disposal to provide records of all waste 
transfers. Balfour Beatty works with several waste 
disposal contractors to meet the needs of its 
various operations. 
Waste performance
Following the achievement of the 2030 target 
by the UK business to reduce tonnes of waste 
generated per £m revenue by 40%, seven years 
earlier than planned, we have reset our waste 
baseline to 2023 and will be reporting the following 
waste performance indicators that are aligned to 
the principles of zero avoidable waste.
DEMOLITION WASTE (NON-HAZARDOUS) TONNES
EXCAVATION WASTE (NON-HAZARDOUS) TONNES
PREMISES WASTE (NON-HAZARDOUS) TONNES
CONSTRUCTION WASTE (NON-HAZARDOUS) TONNES 
24
24
24
24
23
23
23
23
SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED
SCAN OR CLICK TO EXPLORE 
OUR BEST CASE STUDIES
 Diverted from landfill 
 Landfilled 
 Tonnes/£m revenue
120,000
80,000
40,000
0.0
120,000
100,000
80,000
60,000
40,000
20,000
0.0
760,000
660,000
560,000
460,000
360,000
260,000
160,000
0.0
25,000
15,000
5,000
0.0
18.0
14.0
10.0
6.0
2.0
0.0
 
@ Tonnes of non-hazardous construction waste 
generated, and the proportion diverted from landfill.
 
@ Tonnes of construction waste per £m revenue
 
@ Tonnes of non-hazardous demolition waste 
generated, and the proportion diverted from landfill
 
@ Tonnes of non-hazardous excavation waste 
generated, and the proportion diverted 
from landfill
 
@ Tonnes of non-hazardous premises waste 
generated, and the proportion diverted 
from landfill
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

59
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Sustainable packaging innovation at Dunfermline Learning Campus
The challenge: Balfour Beatty collaborated with 
Whitecroft Lighting to address the ambitious 
sustainability goals of the Dunfermline Learning 
Campus project for Fife College. The partnership 
aimed to eliminate single-use packaging waste 
while improving efficiency and safety on site.
The solution: Geopak System
The solution emerged through extensive 
collaboration between Balfour Beatty, Whitecroft 
Lighting, Cardiff University, and consultancy 
PDR. Together, we developed Geopak, a reusable, 
collapsible modular packaging system made 
from polypropylene. Geopak features GPS 
tracking for digital monitoring, ensuring secure 
delivery and efficient logistics. Post-use, the 
packaging is collapsed and returned for reuse. 
This innovation enables the transport of mixed 
lighting products whilst optimising space and 
reducing risks associated with waste on 
construction sites.
Key achievements
 
@ Waste reduction: Geopak is projected to 
prevent up to two tonnes of packaging waste 
during the project.
 
@ Efficiency gains: GPS tracking reduces 
the risk of lost items and streamlines 
site operations.
 
@ Enhanced safety: eliminating single-use 
packaging reduces trip, fire, and 
biohazard risks.
Development and implementation
Jim Brannan, Balfour Beatty’s Head of Supply 
Chain Development, led on the multi-stage 
development process, which involved two years 
of prototyping, workshops, and stakeholder 
collaboration. Early missteps in design were 
overcome through persistent innovation, 
culminating in a system that aligns with the 
project’s energy and environmental goals.
Community and industry benefit
The initiative sets a standard for the wider 
construction industry. By making the design 
open-source, going forward Balfour Beatty and 
Whitecroft Lighting invite others in the sector to 
adopt the system.
The successful implementation of Geopak has 
inspired some of our other subcontractors to adopt 
the solution within their own supply chains. This 
initiative demonstrates the power of collaborative 
innovation in achieving sustainable construction 
goals and reshaping industry practices.
This system is a huge 
step forward. We 
said we’d help design it 
and bring it to market, 
but this is a solution for 
the construction industry, 
not just for Whitecroft 
and Balfour Beatty at 
Fife College.”
Jim Brannan 
Head of Supply Chain Development, 
Balfour Beatty
Congratulations to 
our Balfour Beatty 
team for leading the 
way and packing 
innovation into our new 
Fife College and Carnegie 
Conference Centre.”
John McGee 
Fife College’s Campus 
Innovation Officer
Focus areas:
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
60
60
Improving how we manage PPE
The manufacture and disposal of textiles pose a 
significant environmental challenge, with only 
1% of clothing effectively recycled globally. 
In 2024, we purchased c. 64,000 items of hi-vis 
PPE in the UK, highlighting the importance of 
addressing this issue.
Focus on: the PPE lifecycle
On National Highway's A63 Castle Street 
Scheme in Hull, we trialled a durable, washable 
PPE range with a complete end-of-life recycling 
solution. Operatives used two sets of PPE 
alternately, sending one for laundering as 
needed. Garments were cleaned, mended, 
and safety-checked to ensure compliance. 
Radio Frequency Identification tags enabled 
precise tracking, facilitating data collection 
on carbon emissions and wash cycles.
Operatives praised the design and comfort, 
though lower-than-expected washing 
requirements limited the trial’s scale. Building 
on this success, a larger trial is planned to 
gather more data and refine the approach.
Focus on: collaborative success
Balfour Beatty hosted a sustainable innovation 
event, bringing together our PPE supply chain 
partner, tier 2 manufacturers, and key internal 
stakeholders. Through ‘speed dating’ sessions 
and roundtable discussions, participants explored 
ways to enhance PPE sustainability, including 
consolidating the range, expanding laundry 
access and improving end-of-life management.
A PPE committee was formed to drive these 
initiatives, ensuring Balfour Beatty continues to 
lead in sustainable practices while aligning with 
business-wide goals.
This event clearly demonstrates our 
approach to working hand in hand 
with our supply chain partners to 
drive meaningful change. Together, 
we’re stronger, and together, we can 
achieve truly sustainable and 
impactful outcomes.”
Jo Potts
Sustainability Director, Responsible 
Sourcing and Social Impact, Balfour Beatty
Balfour Beatty’s expert materials engineering team
Balfour Beatty employs a dedicated team of 100 
materials engineering experts who provide 
industry-leading expertise and resources for our 
UK projects. The Materials Engineering department 
was first established in Balfour Beatty in the 
1980s by the late Chief Materials Engineer, 
John Ferguson. The team is an integral part of 
our engineering community, offering 
comprehensive materials solutions for projects 
which support our zero avoidable waste targets. 
By prioritising early contractor involvement and 
through ongoing collaboration with our 
customers, designers and our project teams, 
we can optimise earthworks and strategies for 
materials reuse and recycling. This approach 
significantly minimises waste, reduces costs 
and carbon emissions. 
The team operates several testing laboratories 
accredited to the internationally recognised 
standard BS EN ISO 17025 (Competence of 
Laboratories) offering a wide range of tests for 
a broad range of construction materials. Balfour 
Beatty is one of only a few organisations to be 
granted Flexible Scope of Accreditation by 
UKAS, the national accreditation body. 
The Materials Engineering team regularly 
contributes to several key industry bodies and 
working groups, such as the BSI Committees, 
Britpave Council, Quality Scheme for Ready 
Mixed Concrete Board and UKAS Construction 
Industry Technical Advisory Committee. 
The teams key capabilities which support 
resource efficiency are:
 
@ strategic planning at tender stage – our 
Materials Engineering team collaborates early 
in the tender process to develop materials 
reuse and supply strategies, enabling best 
value for our clients;
 
@ onsite compliance – our in-house laboratories 
deliver rapid material compliance feedback, 
facilitating informed decision making and risk 
management; 
 
@ seamless integration with project teams – 
engaged from preconstruction through to 
project delivery, our team optimises materials 
management, reducing excavation and 
demolition waste;
 
@ expert materials management and 
compliance – we provide materials 
management plans, waste management 
compliance, ongoing monitoring, and 
verification, supporting both project and 
hub-and-cluster approaches;
 
@ proactive standards review – early 
assessment of material standards helps 
identify barriers and enablers to maximise 
recycling and reuse potential on site; and
 
@ nationwide expertise for projects of all sizes 
– from small-scale developments to complex, 
major projects, our clients benefit from 
company-wide expertise that delivers optimal 
solutions balancing cost, programme 
efficiency, and environmental sustainability.
BELOW
M25 Junction 10 / A3 Wisely Interchange Improvement Scheme.
SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED
Resource efficiency continued
Focus areas:
Focus areas:
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

61
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
 
Supply chain integrity
Balfour Beatty is committed to building a sustainable, 
ethical, and resilient supply chain that delivers 
long-term value for all stakeholders. Our supply 
chain is crucial to achieving the targets set out in 
our Building New Futures sustainability strategy, 
driving industry-wide transformation through 
collaboration and innovation.
Supply chain integrity is supported by key 
frameworks, including our Sustainable Procurement 
Policy, Procurement Strategy, Supply Chain Code 
of Conduct, Supplier Sustainability Conditions and 
Modern Slavery Statement. Together these 
articulate our expectations of our supply chain 
partners, while enabling collaboration to address 
shared sustainability challenges. 
We empower our supply chain by building strong, 
collaborative relationships that drive mutual 
learning and progress. Sharing knowledge and 
supporting innovation ensures our supply chain 
partners meet our sustainability and ethical 
expectations while contributing valuable expertise 
and balancing social, environmental, and 
economic needs.
Our activities are focused on three key areas:
 
@ carbon and materials: reducing the 
environmental impact through sustainable 
sourcing and innovative material use;
 
@ human rights: safeguarding ethical labour 
practices and protecting individuals’ rights 
across our supply chain; and
 
@ inclusive procurement: empowering diverse, 
local, small and medium-sized enterprises 
(SMEs) and voluntary, community and social 
enterprises (VCSEs) to strengthen local 
economies and create social value that drives 
sustainable progress.
The foundation of our approach is our Supply 
Chain Sustainability Risk heat map which 
integrates material sustainability considerations 
into procurement systems and processes, 
influencing what we buy and how we buy.
Carbon and materials
Balfour Beatty has set a SBTi verified target to 
reduce emissions from Scope 3 purchased goods 
and services, by 25% by 2030, based on a 2020 
baseline. This target is integral to our net zero 
target, aligning with global climate goals and 
driving the transition to a low-carbon supply chain. 
Achieving this reduction will require close collaboration 
with supply chain partners, innovative material 
sourcing, and the adoption of low-carbon 
technologies across our supply chain.
Efforts to reduce Scope 3 emissions are focused 
on sustainable procurement practices, carbon 
reduction initiatives for key materials, and 
embedding carbon management into 
procurement processes.
Our Responsible Sourcing team has worked 
closely with our Materials Engineering team 
to develop carbon and steel decarbonisation 
roadmaps, outlining expectations to 2030 and 
supporting both our carbon reduction targets 
and our clients. 
Decarbonising carbon-intensive materials
In 2024, Balfour Beatty undertook a comprehensive 
review of approaches to decarbonising its use 
of concrete and steel, two materials with high 
carbon intensities. These materials are critical to 
our operations and represent a key focus area in 
our commitment to achieving a 25% reduction 
in Scope 3 carbon emissions by 2030.
Cementitious materials
Our internal capabilities are critical to delivering 
sustainable solutions. In 2024, we launched the 
Concrete Knowledge course which now includes 
training on low-carbon concrete, as well as 
practical sustainable measures which can be 
implemented on our projects. This equips our 
teams with the knowledge to challenge the 
carbon intensity of concrete across our projects 
and positions us to meet the growing demand 
for sustainable construction solutions.
Following the closure of UK's last source of 
Ground Granulated Blast Furnace Slag, which 
has been instrumental in decarbonising concrete, 
we are exploring alternative methods to 
decarbonise the concrete used in our projects.
Balfour Beatty has signed an agreement with 
advanced materials engineering group Versarien 
to develop a range of low-carbon, grapheneinfused, 3D-printable mortars suitable for civil 
construction. This will include the development 
of three mortars; one will be based on local 
materials with two enhanced with Versarien’s 
graphene admixture, Cementene™. This project 
aims to demonstrate the performance, durability, 
and cost effectiveness compared to traditional 
construction materials. 
Decarbonising steel production 
We have taken proactive measures to 
support the steel industry's transition toward 
lower‑carbon production methods. In 2024, we 
engaged with our supply chain and conducted 
a comprehensive survey involving over 50 steel 
suppliers to assess their decarbonisation 
strategies. The survey revealed that a significant 
portion of our supply chain is already adopting 
Electric Arc Furnace (EAF) technology, which 
reduces carbon intensity by 80% in comparison 
to traditional Blast Furnace steel production¹.
To further our commitment to carbon reduction, 
we have also initiated consultations with mills 
aiming to introduce green steel to the market in 
the coming years.
Low-carbon steel piles
In 2024, the Nuneham embankment, supporting 
a key bridge over the River Thames, began to 
show signs of failure due to movement in the 
Victorian brick abutment, leading to the closure 
of a major train route. To address this, our team 
reinforced the embankment with EcoSheetPiles, 
a low-carbon alternative to traditional steel piling.
EcoSheetPiles were sourced for their 
environmental benefits; manufactured using 
Electric Arc Furnace technology, they produce 
370kg CO2e per tonne, significantly lower than 
the typical 2.3 tCO2e associated with traditional 
steel. The product is made from 100% recycled 
materials and produced with 100% renewable 
electricity, reducing emissions by 30% 
compared to conventional methods.
We significantly reduced the carbon footprint of 
the project, demonstrating our commitment to 
sustainable practices whilst meeting critical 
infrastructure needs. 
1 www.bcsa.org.uk/resources/sustainability/steelsustainability-faqs/
Focus areas:
SCAN OR CLICK TO EXPLORE 
OUR BEST CASE STUDIES
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
62
62
Supply chain integrity 
continued
Target progress
For our data on Scope 3, Category 15 
purchased goods and services, please refer 
to page 54.
Human rights
Modern slavery supply chain audits
Throughout 2024, Balfour Beatty has continued 
to focus on upskilling our UK supply chain and 
improving approaches to modern slavery across 
the industry. Following a pilot of modern slavery 
audits in 2023, we held an improvement workshop 
to collate feedback from the supply chain to 
enhance the process. 
One of the key changes was creating a two-stage 
audit. Phase 1 consisted of a self-assessment by 
the supplier in advance, enabling them to work 
through the questions, prepare their evidence and 
build a picture of their own maturity. Phase 2 was 
an in-person audit to discuss the self-assessment, 
review the evidence and discuss maturity against 
each audit section which resulted in an agreed 
set of improvement actions. This two-stage 
process enabled more meaningful and 
impactful conversations.
Over the year 187 supply chain modern slavery 
audits have been completed. Since starting the 
audits in 2023, we have audited 308 of our supply 
chain partners. 
Following the audits, we developed a guidance 
document which set out specific improvement 
actions and signposted to further resources from 
organisations like Supply Chain Sustainability 
School, Design for Freedom and the Global Slavery 
Index by WalkFree. In addition, we provided direct 
support to 12 supply chain partners from the 2023 
cohort to accelerate progress, and organised two 
workshops that provided direct support for key 
improvement areas. 
By the end of the year, 100% of our pre-qualified 
Constructionline, supply chain partners had a 
modern slavery statement or equivalent in place. 
Inclusive procurement
Balfour Beatty is committed to continually 
developing its approach to inclusive procurement, 
creating social value and supporting the economic 
resilience of local communities. By engaging a 
diverse range of suppliers, including small and 
medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), voluntary, 
community, and social enterprises (VCSEs), and 
local businesses, the Company aims to contribute 
to inclusive growth and ensure that opportunities 
are accessible to all.
Inclusive procurement is integral to achieving 
Balfour Beatty’s sustainability strategy targets, 
with a focus on driving long-term positive impacts 
in the communities where projects are delivered. 
The Company continues to work with a varied 
supply chain, ensuring that procurement processes 
are fair, transparent, and provide opportunities for 
businesses of all sizes to thrive.
SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED
Skill-based volunteering day with Nuneaton Signs 
Balfour Beatty recognised an opportunity to 
enhance the impact of their volunteer hours 
through skill-based volunteering. Social 
enterprises**, such as Nuneaton Signs, often 
face resource constraints, which can make it 
difficult to fully dedicate efforts to sustainability 
initiatives. Nuneaton Signs, the UK’s leading 
road sign supplier that supports people with 
disabilities into employment (66% of its 
workforce have a disability), was eager to 
advance its sustainability practices but lacked 
the capacity to fully focus on this area. 
To support, Balfour Beatty held a skill-based 
volunteering day at their premises. The Balfour 
Beatty team conducted a thorough energy audit 
to help Nuneaton Signs reduce its energy 
consumption. They also held an interactive 
session on carbon and responsible sourcing, 
which included upskilling on climate change 
and greenwashing, a discussion around carbon 
scopes and science-based targets, the 
feasibility of EPDs for Nuneaton Signs, the 
opportunity to utilise the circular economy, 
addressing best practices around managing 
modern slavery, and the sustainability impacts 
of different areas of spend.
The training sparked valuable discussions on 
how to enhance current practices. As a result, 
Nuneaton Signs updated and improved its 
modern slavery statement and began a 
heatmapping exercise on the sustainability 
impacts of different areas of spend. 
Balfour Beatty also identified an opportunity to 
increase its spend with Nuneaton Signs on a 
range of recyclable signs, thus improving our 
environmental and social impact.
The results 
 
@ £4,242 of social value delivered
 
@ 42 hours of skilled volunteering delivered
 
@ Energy saving opportunities identified 
 
@ Actionable sustainability improvements 
identified 
What a fantastic day we had 
yesterday, courtesy of Balfour Beatty! 
Its Responsible Sourcing and Energy 
Management teams joined us for a 
collaboration day and provided us 
with advice on various topics such as 
Carbon Literacy, Resource Efficiency 
and Inclusive Procurement. A big 
thank you to the teams – we thoroughly 
enjoyed spending the day with you!”
Holly Hunter
Head of Social Value and Marketing, 
Nuneaton Signs
** Based on NT15, 2022 TOMS proxy values.
Focus areas:
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

63
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
 
Community engagement
Target progress
In 2021 Balfour Beatty set a target to deliver £3 billion in social value by 2030. In 2024 as part of the 
evolved sustainability strategy this social value target was updated to be delivered five years early, in 2025. 
Balfour Beatty projects delivered £990,606,415.14Ⓐ during 2024 and therefore exceeded the £3 billion 
target during the year and since the target was set in 2021, social value data collected, verified and 
reported totals £3,460,071,854.
UK breakdown:
2021
2022
2023
2024
Total since
 target set
Spend with local 
suppliers
£761,486,644
£892,762,951
£959,174,488
£914,457,867 £3,527,881,950
Spend with SMEs
Over £1bn
Over £1.5bn
Over £1.4bn
Over £1.85bn
Over £5.75bn
Employee 
volunteering 
hours
23,000
19,645
18,986
20,154
81,785
Volunteering 
hours positively 
impacting the 
environment
872
2,572
2,968
4,225
10,637
From measuring social value 
to measuring social impact 
Social value refers to creating positive, lasting 
benefits for society. We monetise it to demonstrate 
the value that our business actions have on local 
communities – whether that’s through supporting 
the local economy, improving the lives of local 
people, or benefiting the local environment. Since 
there is no single standard for measuring social 
value, it can sometimes be difficult to break down 
exactly how this value is created or compare it to 
other organisations. Over the past year, we have 
focused on improving our data collection and 
reporting to provide greater transparency on the 
impact we’ve had in the communities where 
we operate.
SOCIAL VALUE GENERATED TO DATE
£3,460,071,854
SCAN OR CLICK TO EXPLORE 
OUR BEST CASE STUDIES
Measuring our social impact 
Social impact is more focused on measuring 
outcomes and changes brought about by specific 
projects and initiatives such as improving people’s 
lives, creating job opportunities, or addressing 
specific community needs. In 2024, the Social 
Impact team has focused on improving reporting 
of social data across our projects. We know the 
incredible impact our project teams have in local 
communities, but without complete reporting, 
valuable contributions can go unrecognised. This 
year, through a concerted effort, we have increased 
the number of projects capturing social impact 
data helping us to better demonstrate the true 
value of our work. As a result we have seen an 
increase in the number of projects reporting data 
that is not spend related. 
Across the UK, we have provided:
 
@ 7
,058 weeks of apprenticeships; 
 
@ 691 weeks of paid work experience;
 
@ 585 weeks of training opportunities;
 
@ 8,418 hours of community project volunteering; 
 
@ 421 hours of careers support; and
 
@ employed 1,055 local people (equivalent FTE). 
In September 2024, Social Value Portal released a 
new set of Themes, Outcomes and Measures 
(TOMS) which we will introduce in 2025, where 
our social value and social impact reporting will 
have an even greater focus on transparency and 
the impact we are having on people, planet and 
local economies. 
Balfour Beatty has partnered with the Social Value 
Portal to measure, manage and report social value 
for the UK business. Following a limited assurance 
approach, the Social Value Portal validates the 
social value data quarterly ensuring the methodology 
that underpins the TOMs framework is 
consistently applied. 
2030: £3bn 
(target)
2021: £717m
(total)
Baseline
year
2022: £816m
(total)
2023: £937m
(total)
2024: £991m
(total)
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
64
64
Community engagement 
continued
Measuring our social impact 
continued
PwC LLP was engaged to undertake an 
independent limited assurance engagement of 
the social value generated in the UK, reporting to 
Balfour Beatty plc, using the assurance standard 
ISAE 3000 (Revised) on the social value data that 
has been highlighted in this report with the symbol Ⓐ. 
PwC LLP’s full statement is available at: www.
balfourbeatty.com/ILA_2024. 
In order to reach its opinion, PwC LLP performed 
a range of testing procedures over the social value 
data. A summary of the work PwC LLP performed 
is included within its assurance opinion. Non-financial 
performance information is subject to more 
inherent limitations than financial information. 
The limited assurance statement should be read 
in the context of the reporting criteria as set out in 
Balfour Beatty’s Global Sustainability Reporting 
Guidance available at: www.balfourbeatty.com/
sustainabilityreporting
The guidance outlines the non-financial KPIs 
measured by the Group, their definitions and 
evidence requirements.
Work experience and 
school engagement
Providing work experience is a crucial part of 
encouraging young people to consider a role in 
the built environment. Balfour Beatty partners 
with Industrial Cadets, which was developed 
by the Engineering Development Trust believes, 
every young person should have the chance 
to embrace science, engineering, technology 
and maths (STEM) learning opportunities. 
In collaboration with industry and educational 
partners they developed the Industrial Cadets 
pathway of programmes to help students access 
4,642 
HOURS OF SUPPORT TO 
EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
53,462 
STUDENT INTERACTIONS
258 
EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS ENGAGED
SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED
Balfour Beatty Communities Foundation awards 
college scholarships totalling over £92,000 
This year, Balfour Beatty Communities awarded 
scholarships totalling over US$119,000 
(£92,000) to exceptional individuals across its 
military housing, multifamily housing, and 
student housing portfolios. These scholarships 
aim to empower recipients in their pursuit of 
higher education and community leadership.
Leslie Cohn, a Board Member of the Balfour 
Beatty Communities Foundation said: “We are 
thrilled to grant these scholarships. Empowering 
individuals to pursue their educational dreams 
not only enriches their lives but also strengthens 
our communities. Through this programme, we 
continue our steadfast commitment to fostering 
growth, leadership, and academic excellence 
among our residents".
This marks the 17th consecutive year of the 
Balfour Beatty Communities Foundation 
scholarship programme. Since its establishment 
in 2007
, the foundation has disbursed more than 
US$1.7 million (£1.3 million) in scholarships to 
deserving individuals.
Commenting on her scholarship, Annie Benson, 
resident at The Broadview at Vanderbilt, said: “I 
am deeply honoured and immensely grateful to 
be a recipient of this scholarship. 
“My educational journey would not be possible 
without the generous support of programmes 
like this. 
This scholarship affords me the opportunity 
to pursue my master’s degree, enabling me to 
fulfil my aspiration of contributing to the medical 
field as an engineer specialising in surgical robotics.
”
Focus areas:
STEM learning and experience the world of work. 
In 2024 we provided 194 work experience weeks 
for 140 students aged under 18. In addition, we 
also trialled a new online work experience option, 
Industry Insights, which is a week-long interactive 
programme offering structured virtual work 
experience hosted within the classroom. This 
new programme was trialled by 113 students 
and feedback was very positive enabling us to 
offer a hybrid approach to work experience. 
During 2024, a Balfour Beatty minimum standard 
was developed for social impact delivery which 
applies to all projects, irrespective of client 
requirements. This is focused on improved 
utilisation of volunteering days to support 
educational outcomes and upskilling and 
encouraging children of all ages to consider 
careers within our industry. Our approach is 
underpinned by two key considerations: identifying 
locations where Balfour Beatty has a long-term 
presence and pipeline of work to create 
meaningful employment opportunities for the 
students we support; and prioritising those 
locations and schools where social mobility 
barriers are most pronounced, ensuring our 
efforts have the greatest impact.
Charity, fundraising and volunteering 
Throughout 2024, Balfour Beatty made charitable 
contributions totalling £498,314 in the UK, including 
fundraising by employees which accounted for 
24% of the total. In the US, a donation of US$5,000 
was made to Feeding America. We have seen an 
increase in employee volunteering in 2024 which 
totalled 20,154 hours. These initiatives ranged 
from engaging with education to creating 
community spaces and providing business 
support to social enterprises.
During this year, as part of an annual festive 
fundraising campaign we also allocated £26,000, 
representing a £1 for each of our 26,000 employees 
worldwide, to our Corporate Charity Partners: The 
King’s Trust, Groundwork and Project RECCE CIO. 
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

65
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Operator Skills Hub
In 2024, Balfour Beatty Flannery, a joint venture between Balfour 
Beatty and Flannery Plant Hire, proudly trained its 1,000th student 
at the Operator Skills Hub. This purpose-built training facility, 
established in Birmingham in 2021, plays a crucial role in addressing 
the industry's significant skills shortage and provides trainees with 
a direct pathway to employment.
2024 highlights
 
@ 649 people have completed the training
 
@ 32 (5%) served in the armed forces
 
@ 45 (7%) were female 
 
@ 79 (12%) had a disability, learning difficulty or health problem
 
@ 34 (5%) declared they had a criminal conviction 
 
@ 195 (30%) were Not in Education, Employment or Training (NEET) 
 
@ Over £400,000 in social value was delivered
Abigail Cleverley, the 1,000th student, achieved the nationally 
recognised accreditation to operate articulated dumper trucks and 
rollers. She has since secured a role at Balfour Beatty VINCI’s 
HS2 contract.
Talking about her experience, Abigail Cleverley, Operator Skills Hub 
Graduate, said: “Completing my training at the Operator Skills Hub 
has been an incredible experience. The hands-on approach and 
state-of-the-art equipment gave me the confidence and skills I 
need to succeed in this industry now and in the future.
“Thanks to the training, I’ve not only gained a nationally recognised 
qualification but also secured a role on one of the most exciting 
infrastructure projects in the UK. I can’t wait to be part of such a 
transformative scheme.
”
Abigail received her certificate from Andy Ormerod, Managing 
Director of Balfour Beatty’s Asset & Technology Solutions team, 
and Patrick Flannery, Managing Director of Flannery Plant Hire.
Andy, said: “I’m incredibly proud of the work we’re doing here 
in partnership with Flannery. Together, we’re opening doors to 
meaningful careers for people from all backgrounds – many of 
whom might never have seen construction and infrastructure as 
an exciting career path until they joined us.
“
As we look ahead to the future, we’re committed to continuing 
our work to close the industry’s skills gap, creating a diverse and 
inclusive culture in our sector and providing a skilled and resilient 
workforce that can deliver for the UK in the future.
”

The Operator Skills Hub has 
allowed us to provide an 
opportunity to both new entrants 
into the industry and those existing 
plant operators looking to upskill 
through our Skills Bootcamp in 
Plant Operations. Along with a 
diverse array of learners from 
career changers to veterans we 
have engaged with over 50 
employers to secure meaningful 
and sustainable employment 
benefiting the wider industry.”
Patrick Flannery
Managing Director, Flannery Plant Hire
Focus areas:
ABOVE
(Left to right) Andy Ormerod, Managing Director, Asset & Technology Solutions, Abigail 
Cleverley, Operator Skills Hub Graduate, and Patrick Flannery Managing Director, Flannery 
Plant Hire.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
66
66
 
Employee diversity, equity and inclusion
Creating a diverse and 
inclusive organisation
A thriving, sustainable construction and infrastructure 
industry depends on its people. That’s why Balfour 
Beatty has incorporated diversity, equity, and 
inclusion (DE&I) into its evolved Building New 
Futures sustainability strategy. Addressing the 
industry’s skills shortage means attracting and 
retaining a diverse workforce, including the future 
leaders who will shape our sector. Different 
perspectives drive fresh thinking, innovation, 
and better ways of working.
SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED
'Women in Power' initiative 
The concept for the women in power 
initiative came from a LinkedIn post shared 
by a project manager in our Power T&D 
business. She posted about a 'Day in the 
Life' of a female project manager at Balfour 
Beatty and the positive experience she has 
had. This post got significant traction. 
To reach a broader audience two webinars 
were held in 2024 to encourage and inspire 
female talent to join Balfour Beatty with over 
100 attendees joining. Our Power T&D 
team also hosted a women-only open day at 
Raynesway, Derby, to share more about our 
overhead lines work and the opportunities 
available.
These initiatives have supported female 
diversity in the Power T&D business unit – in 
2024, over 25% of new starters were female. 
As part of our attraction strategy, significant 
work has been undertaken to ensure where 
possible that roles can be flexible or part-time, 
and, in our more remote locations, ensure 
smart working opportunities are available.
* Excluding international joint ventures in 2020 and earlier years.
21
21
21
22
22
22
23
23
23
24
24
24
19
19
19
20
20
20
8.8
2.3
11.0
2.8
3.0
12.4
13.0
1.5
6.2
1.7
7.3
1.9
UK ETHNIC MINORITY EMPLOYEES %
FEMALE EMPLOYEES ACROSS 
THE WORKFORCE %*
UK BLACK EMPLOYEES %
18.7
19.6
20.2
21.0
18.0
18.7
Progress towards diversity targets in three key areas:
  
FIND OUT HOW WE ARE DRIVING AN 
INCLUSIVE CULTURE, READ OUR PEOPLE 
SECTION ON PAGES 68 TO 73
SCAN OR CLICK TO EXPLORE 
OUR BEST CASE STUDIES
Engaging with education is a key lever in this. By 
inspiring the next generation to consider careers 
in construction, we can attract a broader range of 
talent, increase social mobility, and create clearer 
pathways into the industry. This not only supports 
more resilient communities but also secures the 
skilled workforce needed to deliver the 
infrastructure of tomorrow.
Within our early careers population, 2024 saw 
strong progress on gender diversity, achieving 
over 26% females in the UK and over 10% 
females in Hong Kong. Ethnic diversity also 
continues to be a firm focus within this population, 
with over 60% minority ethnic hires in the US and 
over 20% in the UK.
Increasing the diversity of the organisation
Increasing the diversity of experience and thinking 
within our teams, to ensure that they reflect the 
communities that we work within, remains a focus 
across the Group. For the UK we have agreed a 
series of targets to help drive progress on gender 
and ethnic diversity. We also report our progress 
as part of the FTSE Women Leaders Review and, 
as required by the UK Parker Review, in 2024 we 
set a 6% target for senior leadership ethnic diversity. 
In setting this target, we considered the dynamics 
impacting our business, hiring challenges particularly 
at senior levels, and timescales. Balfour Beatty 
also remains committed to the UK 2030 DE&I 
targets set in 2022, consistently monitoring our 
steady progress and reporting externally at key 
points along the way. 
Focus areas:
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

67
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
UK
UK
US
US
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
FEMALE %
BLACK AND MINORITY ETHNIC %*
Diversity of hires in 2024
26.76%
23.79%
20.83%
20.69%
59.99%
5.70%
Gender breakdown
At 31 December 2024
Male
Female
Total
% Male
% Female
Board
6
4
10
60.00%
40.00% 
Senior managers1
78
27
105
74.29% 
25.71% 
Directors and subsidiaries 
not included above2 
33
14 
47 
70.21% 
29.79% 
Employees3
21,689 
5,622 
27,311 
79.42% 
20.58% 
1 Senior managers are employees of the Company, its subsidiaries and Gammon, who have responsibility for planning, directing or 
controlling the activities of the Group, or a strategically significant part of it, excluding Directors of Balfour Beatty plc.
2 Directors of all subsidiaries have not been included as senior managers as this would not accurately reflect the Group’s executive pipeline.
3 All employees of the Company and its subsidiaries, together with all employees of Gammon, the Group’s 50:50 joint venture with 
Jardine Matheson based in Hong Kong.
Focus areas:
Focus areas:
Supporting employees 
to thrive to sustain 
our future
In observance of Global Diversity Awareness 
Month, Balfour Beatty hosted its fifth annual 
‘Together Allies Summit’ in the US dedicated 
to further embedding the Company’s 
people-first culture. The virtual summit took 
place throughout October 2024 and included 
a series of panel discussions on the positive 
impact of fostering workplaces fuelled by 
authenticity and belonging. Each panel 
discussion saw over 500 attendees with one 
of the sessions reaching over 700 individuals. 
The summit theme ‘Sustaining Our Future’ 
highlighted how Balfour Beatty is embracing 
the diverse nature of its workforce, celebrating 
the experiences and backgrounds of its 
employees, and ensuring success through 
better optimisation of skillsets and talents. 
As an Ambassador Sponsor of Construction 
Inclusion Week, Balfour Beatty has 
committed to creating a more welcoming 
workplace environment for team members. 
The continued partnership in this important 
industry-wide initiative aligns perfectly with 
the goals of the Together Allies Summit and 
underscores Balfour Beatty’s dedication to 
fostering a workplace where everyone feels 
seen and heard. 
Exploring the role of 
technology within 
diversity, equity and 
inclusion (DE&I)
Gammon hosted an event titled 
‘Intersectionality: When DE&I Meets 
Technology/AI’ to explore how various 
aspects of a person’s identity, such as race, 
gender, and socioeconomic status, interact 
with disruptive technology, outlining both 
opportunities and challenges.
Kevin O’Brien, Gammon’s Chief Executive, 
made an inspiring speech, emphasising that 
DE&I is essential for business success. The 
keynote speaker, Puja Kapai (Associate Professor, 
Faculty of Law, University of Hong Kong), also 
shared insights on intersectionality, urging us 
to build environments where everyone can 
thrive. The panel discussion explored how 
technology is reshaping DE&I, from recruitment 
to AI’s role in making construction more 
inclusive. 
The day concluded with an engaging 
sign language session, showcasing the 
power of inclusive communication.
* Based on the minority ethnic criteria in each geography.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Our strategic people pillars
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
68
OUR PEOPLE
Valued 
experts
Balfour Beatty is dedicated to fostering a safe, inclusive and engaging 
workplace where every employee can thrive and build a successful career.
Balfour Beatty’s reputation and 
heritage, engineering and construction 
capabilities, and exciting pipeline of 
projects provide an attractive 
environment for talented individuals 
to work and develop their careers. 
2024 has seen significant 
recruitment in some of our core 
growth markets, attracting talent 
to build capacity to deliver the 
opportunities we see ahead of us. 
Against this backdrop, we are 
passionate about providing 
opportunities and fostering a 
welcoming and dynamic environment 
where employees can thrive and 
reach their full potential.
For a number of years, our Group 
people strategy has focused on the 
four pillars of Attract, Retain, Grow 
and Thrive. This strategy continues 
to enable Balfour Beatty’s business 
success, with each geography 
tailoring their annual priorities to 
their unique context and culture. 
ATTRACT
Attracting and recruiting 
the skilled individuals 
we need now, and for 
the future.
RETAIN
Creating the right 
environment to ensure 
our great people want to 
stay in the business.
GROW
Growing our own talent, 
empowering our people 
to build exceptional 
careers that drive 
business success.
THRIVE
Building an ethical and 
inclusive culture where 
people can bring 
their whole self to work 
and perform to their 
highest ability.
Balfour Beatty’s broad and unrivalled 
capability is a unique and powerful 
proposition.
We continue to leverage this to focus on attracting 
and recruiting the right people to meet resource 
demands. We believe in nurturing the next generation 
of talent, inspiring and investing in them to become 
the change-makers of tomorrow. Meaningful early 
engagement is crucial to attracting people to our 
industry, creating opportunities for young people to 
consider the multifaceted construction industry as 
an exciting and promising career path in the future. 
We are increasingly investing in social engagement 
through hosting careers fairs as well as site visits 
for university students and utilising mentorship 
programmes to offer opportunities and foster 
connections with future talent.
We continue to have a strong focus on attracting 
experienced talent and the capabilities that we 
need to deliver today and for the future. Facing 
a scarcity of skills in some locations, our people 
strategy and strong brand have successfully 
enabled us to attract and recruit the expertise and 
resources needed for growth in our key markets. 
Balfour Beatty is committed to providing an 
engaging end-to-end candidate experience, from 
investing in and leveraging our attraction strategies 
through to an inspiring onboarding experience.
Leveraging the strength of our 
brand to attract top talent
In 2024, we invested in our attraction strategies, 
looking to amplify our strong brand to attract 
different audiences to join Balfour Beatty. Looking 
at our future pipeline of talent, we revamped our 
early careers (apprentices, graduates, trainees 
and industrial placements) candidate attraction 
campaign in the UK, bringing a bold new tone 
of voice and imagery to connect with a younger 
audience. Capitalising on the scale of the great 
projects at Balfour Beatty, we have created 
engaging and relevant content to showcase the 
incredible opportunities we offer that align with 
the aspirations and values of the next generation. 
This messaging supports our agile recruitment 
approach which flexes according to business 
needs, and follows through to our selection events. 
These events enable the business to get to know 
candidates better alongside showcasing the breadth 
of opportunity available. This approach is particularly 
important in areas of high growth, as well as high 
volumes of similar job roles – facilitating quicker 
decision making to meet demand. The early 
careers campaign launched in September 2024, 
and will continue to be shared across our social 
channels and on our careers site into 2025. 
 Attract
BELOW
An example of the new early careers branding.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

69
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
Rising Star
Award
This category celebrated individuals who 
will go on to achieve great things.
Winner: Megan Jones,
Senior Proposals Manager, Major Projects
Megan joined Balfour Beatty as a Graduate 
Proposals Writer and has developed significantly 
over a four-year period into the role of Bids 
and Proposals Manager following a 
competence-led development plan. Her 
career progression has included chairing the 
prestigious Highways Leadership Shadow 
team and completing the Aspiring Leaders 
Programme. She is now leading the technical 
submissions for a highly complex multibillion-pound opportunity with our strategic 
partners. Her influence and impact beyond 
‘the day job’ is outstanding. Ilona Pak, Project 
Engineer at Gammon, and Tulsi Patel, Senior 
Supply Chain Manager in the UK, were also 
recognised as Highly Commended for their 
impressive contribution in their respective fields.
Above: Award presentation photo. (Left to right) Ilona Pak, 
Project Engineer – Gammon, Tulsi Hall, Senior Supply Chain 
Manager – Power T&D, Sir John Armitt – Chair of the UK 
National Infrastructure Commission, Megan Jones, Senior 
Proposals Manager – Major Projects, and Kevin O’Brien, Chief 
Executive – Gammon.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR ICON 
AWARDS EVENT ON p74
Gammon
UK
US
4.6%
4.3%
5.3%
5.6%
5.4%
6.0%
6.2%
6.5%
7.4%
7.3%
21 22
24
23
16
15
4.0
5.5
4.5
6.0
5.0
6.5
7.0
7.5
19
18
17
20
% OF OUR UK WORKFORCE IN 
EARN AND LEARN POSITIONS
2024 EARLY CAREERS HIRES: 
GRADUATES, APPRENTICES, 
TRAINEES, INTERNS AND 
INDUSTRIAL PLACEMENTS
179
380
270
The broad range of roles at Balfour Beatty provides ample opportunity 
for employees to build a meaningful career. Nowhere is this more true 
than in one of our key growth areas, Power T&D, where we have a high 
demand for skills and experience to enable us to deliver. 
To support the recruitment of skilled workers in a competitive market, 
the ‘You Complete the Connection’ candidate attraction campaign was 
launched. This campaign is centred around the idea that by joining 
Balfour Beatty, you can be part of something bigger and build your 
career with us shaping the future landscape. This campaign helped 
us hire over 500 individuals in 2024, further powering our progress.
BELOW
An example of our ‘You Complete the Connection’ candidate attraction campaign material.
We believe that people who enjoy 
working at Balfour Beatty, in an 
inclusive environment where they 
feel valued and have the opportunity 
to develop their careers, will want 
to stay with the business long term.
For this reason, listening to our employees 
and acting on their feedback is crucial to our 
success. This focus has led to increased 
retention across all geographies, and 
improved progression opportunities.
In 2024, the Group’s employee engagement 
index score increased for the seventh 
consecutive year, demonstrating our strong 
culture and ongoing commitment to making 
Balfour Beatty a great place to work. Our focus 
on fostering an inclusive culture is evidenced 
through the steadily increasing employee 
engagement scores in areas such as diversity 
and inclusion and ethical behaviours. In the UK 
and US, 95% of our employees feel cared for 
and 90% can see themselves working at 
Balfour Beatty in 12 months. 
These high engagement scores are further 
evidenced by the significant fall in attrition 
across the Group, with rate decreases of 2.01% 
in the UK and 2.80% in Hong Kong. Particularly 
notable progress has been demonstrated by 
the US with attrition decreasing by 10.02% 
and 21.17% in US Civils and US 
Investments respectively.
 Retain
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT 
SURVEY SCORES %
24
21
20
19
18
22
23
84
80
81
76
75
66
65
84%
GROUP EMPLOYEE 
ENGAGEMENT INDEX 
SCORE
up 3% from 2023 and 11% 
above Industry benchmark
19,500
COLLEAGUES COMPLETED 
THE ANNUAL SURVEY
up 8% from the 2023 
response rate
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
70
70
Retaining our talented experts is a key part of our people strategy; further high scores show great engagement 
from our employees in the UK and the US.
90%
CAN SEE 
THEMSELVES 
WORKING HERE IN 12 
MONTHS’ TIME
82%
FEEL MOTIVATED 
AT WORK
85%
FEEL COMFORTABLE 
THEY CAN BE 
THEMSELVES AT 
WORK
83%
FEEL STRONGLY 
CONNECTED TO THEIR 
TEAM AND 
COLLEAGUES
OUR PEOPLE CONTINUED
We Care about reward 
and recognition
Balfour Beatty Investments in the US 
continues to drive action on employee 
engagement through the ‘We Care’ 
initiative. ‘We Care’ outlines eight 
specific qualities and actions – 
empathy, integrity, excellence, 
communication, accountability, 
appreciation, determination, and 
teamwork – expected of all US Balfour 
Beatty Investments employees.
One of the guiding principles within 
this initiative is ‘We show appreciation 
and celebrate success’. The BRAVO 
rewards and recognition programme 
was specifically created to offer 
employees at every level an opportunity 
to recognise and be recognised for 
doing great work and contributing 
to our culture through shout-outs, 
eCards and monetary rewards. In 
2024, this has seen continued success 
with 6,162 submissions, resulting in 
80.30% of US Investments employees 
engaged in the recognition approach.
You said, we did – 
optimising the 
resources needed 
to get the job done
Following the 2023 employee 
engagement survey, our colleagues said 
they wanted even better systems and 
resources to get the job done, so we:
 
@ Set out an ambitious multi-year plan 
to digitise and improve the HR 
services we provide in the UK on 
Balfour Beatty Support, a self‑service 
portal, across the employee lifecycle, 
reducing the number of forms by 
nearly two-thirds to provide colleagues 
with an easier to use, more 
intuitive service.
 
@ Upgraded the IT self-service 
experience on Balfour Beatty 
Support and started exploring the 
opportunities of AI, with a number 
of pilots underway. For more 
information on our digital and AI 
journey, see pages 22 and 23.
The results from our 2024 survey have 
shown a 5% increase in employees 
feeling they have the systems/resources 
they need to be productive at work.
BELOW
Examples of our 2023 employee engagement 
survey ‘You said, we did’ posters.
Retain continued
US:
ENGAGEMENT 
INDEX
87% (+2)
RESPONSE RATE
76% (+21) 
UK:
ENGAGEMENT 
INDEX
82% (+4)
RESPONSE RATE
77% (-3) 
Hong Kong:
ENGAGEMENT 
INDEX
85% (+1)
RESPONSE RATE
100% (+19) 
In 2024, we ran our Group-wide 
#Foodforthought employee 
engagement survey campaign 
which saw an 8% increase in 
participation on 2023 with over 
19,500 colleagues – 82% of the 
Company – completing the survey. 
This was achieved through a 
multi-channel campaign approach 
which included direct emails, 
posters, TV slides, SMS messages 
and situational marketing.
BELOW
Examples of the campaign marketing materials.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

71
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
Encourage Constantly
Award
This category celebrated an individual who 
creates an environment that is supportive, 
empowering, motivating and inspiring for others. 
John McAllister
General Foreman 
Regional Scotland
John’s encouragement of others 
to work safely is admired and 
appreciated by all those he works 
with. He goes above and beyond 
running the site to develop a 
workforce of the future, shows 
a growth mindset by embracing 
modern methods of construction, 
supports supervisor development 
programmes and NVQs, and offers 
constructive feedback to others. 
Cheryl Sutton
Regional Operations 
Director, Balfour Beatty 
Communities
When Cheryl took over the 
responsibility of five Air Force 
bases, she saw an opportunity for 
transformation. Cheryl’s unwavering 
optimism and dedication has 
helped foster a positive culture 
and ensure great customer service 
and operational success.
Left: Award presentation 
photo. (Left to right) 
John McAllister, General 
Foreman – Regional 
Scotland, Evan Sutherland, 
Chief Procurement 
Officer, Cheryl Sutton, 
Regional Operations 
Director – Balfour Beatty 
Communities, and Mark 
Robinson, Group CEO 
– SCAPE.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR ICON 
AWARDS EVENT ON p74
Professional capability and technical competence 
have been a key focus across all geographies 
– from over 1,000 individuals attending commercial 
training in the UK, through to more specific areas 
of focus relating to compliance or new legislation. 
Balfour Beatty is also committed to enhancing 
industry-academia interaction to increase 
opportunities for individuals to develop their 
professional capabilities. 
In 2024, Gammon became the first international 
Corporate Partner of the Institution of Civil 
Engineers, demonstrating its commitment to 
nurturing local talent by providing training and 
professional development for our engineers that 
recognises them both locally and internationally.
Industry-academia interaction is also a strong 
focus in the UK, with 2024 seeing the graduation 
of the first cohort of apprentices undertaking the 
Construction Quantity Surveyor Degree Apprenticeship. 
Launched in January 2021, this apprenticeship 
was designed and delivered in collaboration with 
Northumbria University to directly address a 
known skills gap. Enabled through the connected 
community of the cohort, and strong support from 
line managers and the Learning and Development 
team, this has led to 17 individuals achieving their 
degrees. This programme continues to expand, 
working with industry partners across the country 
and cohort sizes increasing year on year.
5,000+
INDIVIDUALS ATTENDED PROFESSIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT COURSES IN HONG KONG
2,000+
INDIVIDUALS ATTENDED PERSONAL 
EFFECTIVENESS COURSES IN THE UK
 Grow
At Balfour Beatty we continue to be 
committed to our talent philosophy 
to ‘Grow Our Own’
. 
This philosophy is crucial for enabling business 
success through retaining key skills and knowledge, 
preserving our culture and controls, and reducing 
the need for external recruitment. It also benefits 
employees by providing the opportunity for them 
to develop their skills and have fulfilling careers 
within the Group. This talent philosophy is evident 
at all career levels – from our early careers 
through to experienced talent – and there are 
many examples across the Group of individuals 
developing to the highest levels. 
In 2024, we continued our investment at all levels 
in training and development across leadership, 
professional and technical domains. This included 
early careers employees in the UK participating in 
the Duke of Edinburgh Gold Award programme for 
the 10th year running, through to running talent 
programmes such as the Executive Leadership 
Development and Propel programmes in the US 
which saw a combined 70 attendees, and Aspiring 
Leaders in the UK with 48 attendees, supporting 
employees to transition into leadership levels and 
strengthening our succession pipeline. In 2024, 
project leadership was a specific focus in the UK 
with a community set up to build the capability 
of experienced project leaders to lead the most 
complex and highest-value infrastructure projects 
of the future. 
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
72
72
From labourer to leader
Emily Kay, President of Operations in California 
for Balfour Beatty’s US Buildings business, has 
a collection of hard hats, proudly displayed in 
her father’s home, that is a testament to her 30 
years in the construction industry – over half of 
those years working with and for Balfour Beatty. 
It tells the story of a professional who is 
unafraid to try new things, always focused on 
learning and development, and of a person with 
a deep passion for working with people and 
building enduring relationships.
Over her dynamic career, she worked her way up 
the ladder from concrete labourer to her present 
role as President of Operations in California for 
Balfour Beatty’s US Buildings business. “I have 
a tenacious curiosity that has served me well. 
I never wanted to ask someone to do something 
I hadn’t done myself, so I got out there to try it 
all, running every piece of equipment and 
spending time in every job role,
” says Emily.
She has a distinct habit: she does whatever it 
takes. This commitment to personal growth and 
learning has been a key factor in her success. 
“Having those traits and then working at a 
company like Balfour Beatty that says, heck 
yeah, if you’re willing to go the extra mile and 
put in the effort, we will celebrate it, and we 
will give you more opportunity and support you 
along the way,
” shared Emily.
However, she will happily tell you that building 
highly effective teams gives her the most 
satisfaction. A people-first focus characterises 
Emily’s leadership style and her most significant 
contribution has been to the people who work 
beside her. Despite living in Los Angeles, she 
travels weekly to San Diego and other geographies 
to meet with colleagues and frequently stays 
in touch with other Balfour Beatty teammates 
from coast to coast. Emily is committed to 
empowering employees through fostering 
alliances and networking, earning the type 
of influence where people will follow her. 
Having worked my way through 
the construction industry, I have 
developed a solid understanding 
of the need for timely and decisive 
action, clear communication, and 
a positive and proactive attitude. 
Ultimately, what I love most about 
this industry is that it is all about 
building relationships and 
establishing trust.”
OUR PEOPLE CONTINUED
From potential to 
professional: focus 
on project management
In 2024, 25 individuals attended the fifth 
cohort of the Gammon Project Management 
programme. 
The Project Management programme is 
designed to enhance the skills of potential 
Assistant Project Managers and Project 
Managers through practical experience at 
Gammon. Before the launch of this programme, 
the typical lead time for promotion from 
Project Manager to Senior Project Manager 
was six years. However, this programme has 
been instrumental in accelerating career 
progression with one participant notably 
advancing to Senior Project Manager in just 
two years – demonstrating the programme’s 
effectiveness in fast-tracking talented 
individuals and enhancing their readiness 
for senior roles.
We are committed to creating an 
environment where every employee 
can reach their full potential. 
This includes fostering an ethical and inclusive 
culture to ensure that all our people are equipped 
to flourish in a fast-changing world. As well as 
working to ensure that all employees feel valued 
and respected, we continue to focus on employee 
wellbeing. Together this creates an environment 
where the business and our customers benefit 
from the diverse thinking and experiences of 
our employees. 
Employee diversity, equity and inclusion is a core 
part of our Building New Futures sustainability 
strategy; to learn more about the progress made 
against our UK diversity targets set out in the 
Value Everyone UK DE&I strategy, see page 66.
Enabling an inclusive 
and ethical culture
Balfour Beatty continues to demonstrate its 
commitment to enabling an inclusive and ethical 
culture through a number of awards and accreditations. 
These include achieving Disability Confident 
Employer re-accreditation and working towards 
Clear Assured Silver accreditation in the UK and 
in the US, the Buildings division was named 
‘Best Place to Work’ by four business publications 
in California for fostering a culture of innovation, 
collaboration and people-first. We have seen 
continued success in our Right to Respect programme 
in 2024 rolling out across the UK and US and 
continuing to deliver into 2025, and in the UK, 
this was recognised through winning the Inclusive 
Culture Award at the enei Inclusivity Excellence 
Awards. In Hong Kong, Gammon were also recently 
recognised for their continued efforts by the Chief 
 Thrive
Grow continued
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

73
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
Happiness Officer Association where they were 
awarded three prestigious recognitions: CHO Best 
Innovative Culture Award, CHO Employee Wellness 
Award and Top 10 Happy Companies to Work For. 
In 2024, 70 people attended our flagship career 
development programmes, Empower and Thrive 
in the UK. These programmes support and enable 
career progression, and this is demonstrated 
through the success of past attendees with 
62.96% of female attendees being promoted, 
and 48.00% of minority ethnic attendees being 
promoted in the last 36 months.
2024 has seen the introduction of new 
employee‑led networks in support of employee 
veterans, reservists, military members and allies 
– the Mulberry Network in the UK and BRAVE – 
Building Relentless Alliances for Veteran Employees 
in the US, marking a significant step forward in 
Balfour Beatty’s commitment to supporting military 
veterans and their families in the construction industry. 
Building on this commitment, this year also saw the 
re-signing of the Armed Forces Covenant in the UK, 
marking nearly a decade of dedicated support since 
the Company first pledged its commitment in 2015.
74%
FEEL DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION IS 
TALKED ABOUT WHERE THEY WORK
87%
FEEL OUR CULTURE IS INCLUSIVE 
TO ALL PEOPLE REGARDLESS 
OF DIFFERENCE
Setting the standard for 
diversity and inclusion 
progress 
Our HS2 joint venture, Balfour Beatty VINCI 
SYSTRA (BBVS), which is leading construction 
for the Old Oak Common station, achieved 
the prestigious Clear Assured Platinum 
Accreditation by the Clear Company. The 
project received praise for its approach to 
embedding a safe, respectful and inclusive 
culture through collaboration with its 
partners. Initiatives to advance inclusive 
leadership, social value and the health and 
wellbeing of its workforce, were highlighted 
as particular areas of success.
Steve O’Sullivan, Senior Project Director for 
BBVS said: “
Achieving this accreditation is 
testament to the commitment and dedication 
of our team to delivering sustainable 
outcomes. Senior leadership support is 
delivered by being proactive, authentic, 
visible and accountable. Our team has 
followed their lead to embed an inclusive 
culture, which shapes and influences the 
DE&I narrative both across the project and 
in the industry. This is part of the legacy that 
HS2 will leave.
”
Empowering the next 
generation
To welcome the new intake of graduate 
engineers in 2024, Gammon hosted an 
inspiring orientation camp designed to ignite 
the passion and potential of our future talent. 
As part of this event, attendees participated 
in a ‘Dialogue Experience’ session which 
include experiences in darkness, a journey 
of silence, and a Braille and sign language 
workshop. This session highlighted Gammon’s 
unwavering commitment to fostering an 
inclusive culture through encouraging 
inclusive communication, and promoting 
empathy and understanding of the challenges 
faced by those with visual and hearing 
impairments – creating an environment 
where everyone feels valued and included.
Value 
Everyone 
Award
This category recognised an individual 
who celebrates difference and enables 
others to thrive regardless of their 
identity or background.
Winner: Michelle Reiner
Vice President Operations, US Buildings
Michelle has been actively involved in driving 
change and inclusivity at Balfour Beatty for 
over a decade. Alongside managing her US 
Buildings operations role, she established the 
Connecting Women and Building Pride groups 
in the US and for the last couple of years, 
she has spearheaded the US ‘Together Allies 
Summit’
. Michelle embodies the ‘Value Everyone’ 
behaviour by role modelling inclusive 
behaviours, actively working to remove barriers, 
and supporting engagement by valuing 
different perspectives and ways of thinking.
Above: Award presentation photo. (Left to right) Phil 
Harrison, Chief Financial Officer, Michelle Reiner, Vice 
President Operations – US Building, and Carl Trowell, 
President, UK Strategic Infrastructure – National Grid.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR ICON 
AWARDS EVENT ON p74
SCAN OR CLICK TO WATCH 
THE EVENT VIDEO
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

74
74
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Celebrating the best 
of Balfour Beatty
1,700
NOMINEES
200
JUDGES
118
FINALISTS
26 
ULTIMATE 
ICONS
1
WORLD-CLASS 
VENUE
It’s a fantastic opportunity to come 
to a great venue but really to 
celebrate all that Balfour Beatty 
does throughout the UK and many 
other countries in the world. 
Balfour Beatty is a fantastic partner 
for us in the energy transition and 
it will be for decades to come.” 
Alistair Phillips-Davies CBE 
Chief Executive Officer, SSE
ICON AWARDS
On 25 September 2024, under the 
gaze of the magnificent Raphael 
paintings of the London V&A Museum, 
we celebrated our inaugural Group‑wide 
Icon Awards. 
‌
This prestigious event 
brought together almost 400 colleagues 
from across the UK, US and Hong 
Kong alongside Board members, key 
customers and partners, to honour 
the very best of Balfour Beatty.
SCAN OR CLICK TO HEAR 
LEO’S THOUGHTS ON OUR 
INAUGURAL ICON AWARDS
Together, we paint skylines, build incredible 
infrastructure, and shape communities. But just 
as important as what we deliver, is how we 
deliver; something that is driven by our culture, 
underpinned by our behaviours.
The Icon Awards celebrated 26 winners over 
16 categories focused on our five behaviours – 
Talk Positively, Collaborate Relentlessly, Encourage 
Constantly, Make a Difference and Value Everyone 
– and core programmes such as Zero Harm and 
Right First Time. The Awards recognised and 
shone a spotlight on our people and teams that 
– all over the world – make amazing things happen. 
From our rising stars to seasoned project leads, 
their contributions are the foundation to our 
continued success and what makes Balfour 
Beatty a great place to work. 
Look out for the Icon Award logo throughout 
the report to read our winner’s stories. 
Leo on the 
Icon Awards 
SCAN OR CLICK TO WATCH 
THE WRAP-UP VIDEO FROM 
OUR ICON AWARDS
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

75
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
SCAN OR CLICK TO FIND 
OUT MORE ABOUT OUR 
ICON AWARDS
1. 
BBC journalist and broadcaster Martine Croxall 
expertly hosted our first ever Group-wide 
Icon Awards.
2. 
The ceremony was held in the V&A
’s 
impressive Raphael Gallery.
3. 
The magnificent V&A Museum in the heart 
of London.
4. Balfour Beatty’s 2024 Icon Award winners.
5. The Icon Awards winner’s trophy. 
6. 
The 1909 drink – to represent our founding 
year and the year the V&A Museum 
re-opened.
7
. 
Leo Quinn, Group Chief Executive, delivering 
his opening remarks.
8. 
Welcome drinks hosted in The Dome under 
Dale Chihuly’s contemporary central 
glass sculpture.
1
4
5
6
7
8
2
3
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
76
76
MY CONTRIBUTION (MYC)
Enhancing performance 
through employee ideas
My Contribution (MyC) continues to be a critical driver for business 
innovation, empowering employees at all levels to share and deliver 
their ideas that can lead to substantial improvements and efficiencies. 
The programme’s successes in 2024 reflect a strong commitment to 
fostering a culture of innovation, recognising employee contributions, 
and leveraging technology to solve business challenges.
2024 highlights
 
@ MyC turns five: we celebrated MyC’s fifth 
birthday since moving to Viva Engage, Balfour 
Beatty’s employee social platform, with a series 
of fun events to showcase achievements, recognise 
colleagues and encourage participation.
 
@ In-person engagement: MyC was on the 
agenda at 18 internal conferences across 
our Business Units and Enabling Functions; 
inspiring senior leaders, employees, and early 
careers through presentations reaching over 
2,940 employees.
 
@ MyC at Old Oak Common: Successfully 
piloted MyC using Microsoft Teams at our 
HS2 Old Oak Common station project.
 
@ MyC employee engagement metric: As part 
of our annual employee engagement survey we 
ask our colleagues if they feel they can share 
their ideas. In 2024, we achieved a 3% increase 
in this metric, with 76% of people feeling they 
can share ideas to improve the business.
 
@ US Civils launch: After a year-long pilot in the 
La Verne, California office, MyC officially rolled 
out across the US Civils business in August.
2024 UK and US performance
Engaging our workforce
2,000
IDEAS SHARED
24%
OF EMPLOYEES COLLABORATING ON IDEAS
Creating value
£3.2m
ESTIMATED COST SAVINGS
£3.2m
ESTIMATED CASH IN
Driving change
490
IDEAS DELIVERED
466
TEAM MYC VOLUNTEERS
Great place to work
53,800
ESTIMATED HOURS SAVED
271
BETTER PLACE TO WORK IDEAS DELIVERED
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

77
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
MyC Kudos Award
This category recognised those who have 
revolutionised our ways of working by delivering 
an ingenious idea that drives our values and 
showcases remarkable teamwork, transformative 
solutions and significant benefits.
14,000th idea milestone
Our 14,000th idea was submitted during a 
local My Contribution (MyC) campaign on 
the M25 Junction 10/A3 Wisley Interchange 
project. Gemma Pilling, Technical Training 
Co-ordinator, proposed using an existing 
training area on site and inviting an Operator 
Skills Hub trainer to deliver a two-day Advanced 
Engineers course, reducing expenses and 
enhancing efficiency as demand for the 
accreditation grows. 
Two successful courses have been 
delivered on site so far with another two 
planned for 2025. The facility is also available 
for other projects. 
Howard Williams, Project Director, praised 
Gemma’s idea for aligning perfectly with the 
MyC campaign’s efficiency goals.
Shaping our journey: 
MyC at Old Oak Common 
In August 2024, we launched an early adopter pilot of MyC using 
Microsoft Teams on our HS2 Old Oak Common station (OOC) project 
in partnership with HS2. The MyC programme has been tailored to the 
project requirements, supporting the team to deliver on its goals and 
HS2’s mission to deliver Britain’s new high-speed railway safely and 
on time.
84 colleagues took part in the pilot to test the platform ‘at scale’ to 
ensure we were creating a positive experience for all those taking part. 
By the end of the pilot in December 2024, 122 ideas had been submitted 
and five ideas delivered including, the introduction of smart sockets in 
the office, road worker abuse signage, a new meeting room booking 
system, onsite bicycle servicing and an Old Oak Common library.
Above: Award presentation photo. (Left to right) Melanie Page, Head of Group Innovation 
Programmes, Mat Twiss, Senior Project Manager – HS2 Area North, and Eric Stenman, 
President and Chief Executive Officer – US Buildings and Civils.
Above: Gemma Piling, Technical Training Co-ordinator and 
Howard Williams, Project Director.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR ICON 
AWARDS EVENT ON p74
Winner: Mat 
T
wiss
Senior Project Manager, HS2 Area North
Mat’s idea was to implement ‘smart sockets’ across HS2 Area North’s 
operations representing a new approach to energy management. Smart 
sockets leverage machine learning technology to reduce energy waste 
and phantom load by automatically adjusting the power supply based 
on real-time usage data. The smart sockets identify idle devices and 
disconnect power, preventing unnecessary energy consumption.
The idea not only supports our sustainability goals through reducing 
carbon emissions but also aligns with our commitment to innovative, 
tech-driven solutions, all whilst saving money in the process.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
78
78
The Big AI Challenge: 
powered by My Contribution
In October, we hosted an AI hackathon in collaboration with 
Microsoft. This event demonstrated our ability to leverage data 
analytics and artificial intelligence (AI) to tackle critical business 
challenges and enhance productivity across our operations.
The hackathon brought together diverse teams from Balfour 
Beatty and Microsoft. Over a day and a half, 70 colleagues 
worked intensively to explore innovative solutions for six 
business-generated ideas submitted through My Contribution 
(MyC). The teams adopted Team MyC roles and responsibilities, 
and utilised MyC’s idea stages to guide their projects from 
inception to implementation.
Each team, driven by knowledge and competitive spirit, aimed 
to develop prototypes and compete for prizes, showcasing the 
significant impact of data, technology, AI, and teamwork on 
our problem-solving capacities.
Elaine Allen, Microsoft’s industry lead for the Built Environment, 
and Jon Ozanne, Balfour Beatty’s Chief Information Officer, 
selected two standout ideas – the UK Quality team’s auto‑generation 
of inspection and test plans (ITPs) and the Balfour Beatty 
Living Places team’s Highways Repair ‘Clustering’.
All six teams produced exceptional outputs. Our next steps 
involve working with the teams to develop each idea further 
by mapping and planning resources, testing technologies, 
and progressing from proven concepts to scalable solutions.
 
My Contribution in the US
After a year-long pilot in the La Verne, California office, MyC 
officially rolled out across the US Civils business in August. 
Since then, employees have submitted a total of 21 ideas that 
have had broad-reaching impact on business performance 
including revamped standard operating procedures (SOPs) 
and the evaluation and implementation of a new and 
transformational jobsite safety management system. 
In 2024, our US teams have significantly advanced the 
embedment of MyC through communications and targeted 
recruitment efforts for Team MyC membership. Our total 
programme engagement (inclusive of ideas, comments 
and likes) was 2.4 times greater than in 2023. 
A sustainable spark in Seattle 
Balfour Beatty’s General Foreman Joel Babcock leveraged 
the power and scale of MyC to deliver an innovative and 
sustainable solution to re-use door hinges. In addition to its 
positive environmental impact, Joel’s idea reduces waste in 
labour and cost and is estimated to save US$4,500 annually.
SCAN OR CLICK TO READ MORE 
ABOUT JOEL’S MY 
CONTRIBUTION IDEA
Cross-Atlantic collaboration 
Balfour Beatty’s Director of Construction Technology and 
MyC Ambassador Elizabeth Angel represented the US 
businesses in The Big AI Challenge. Bringing her extensive 
knowledge of AI and the MyC programme, Elizabeth made 
vital contributions to the hackathon. Her trip also included 
collaboration opportunities with Balfour Beatty’s UK Building 
Information Modelling team and diversity, equity and 
inclusion leaders.
SCAN OR CLICK TO READ MORE 
ABOUT ELIZABETH’S TRIP TO 
THE UK
MY CONTRIBUTION (MYC) CONTINUED
SCAN OR CLICK TO WATCH 
OUR EVENT HIGHLIGHTS VIDEO
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

79
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
NON-FINANCIAL AND SUSTAINABILITY INFORMATION STATEMENT
This section of the Strategic report constitutes the Group’s Non-financial and Sustainability Information Statement, produced to comply with Sections 414CA 
and 414CB of the Companies Act. The non-financial information is contained within the various sections of the Strategic report and is cross‑referenced below to 
help stakeholders find relevant information.
Reporting requirement
Policies and standards which govern our approach 
Additional information necessary to understand 
impact
Page
Anti-corruption and 
bribery matters
Code of Ethics
Supplier Standards
Ethics and compliance
p46
Human rights
Modern Slavery Statement
Code of Ethics
Ethics and compliance
p46
Employees
Code of Ethics
Health and safety policy
Health, safety and wellbeing 
Our people
Stakeholder value: employees
Ethics and compliance
p40
p68
p27
p46
Climate-related risks 
and opportunities
Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD)
Climate change and Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures 
(TCFD)
p107
Environmental 
matters
Our sustainability strategy – 
Building New Futures
Sustainability policy
Sustainable procurement policy
Environmental policy
ISO 14001:2014 and ISO 20400:2017
GHG Protocol
GHG reporting
Sustainability: Climate Change 
Carbon Reduction Plan (PPN 06/21)
www.balfourbeatty.com/ILA_2024
p50
www.balfourbeatty.com/
carbonreductionplan
Social and community 
matters
Our sustainability strategy – Building New 
Futures
Social value policy
Code of Ethics
Social value reporting
Ethics and compliance
Stakeholder value: Communities
Sustainability: Community engagement
www.balfourbeatty.com/ILA_2024
p46
p29
p63
SCAN OR CLICK TO FIND 
OUT MORE ABOUT THE 
GROUP’S POLICIES
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
80
80
MEASURING OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Providing clarity on 
the Group’s alternative 
performance measures 
The Group includes this section in its Annual Report and Accounts with 
the aim of providing transparency and clarity on the measures adopted 
internally to assess performance.
Following the issuance of the Guidelines on 
Alternative Performance Measures (APMs) by 
the European Securities and Markets Authority 
(ESMA) in June 2015, the Group has included this 
section in its Annual Report and Accounts with 
the aim of providing transparency and clarity on 
the measures adopted internally to 
assess performance.
Throughout this report, the Group has presented 
financial performance measures which are considered 
most relevant to Balfour Beatty and are used to 
manage the Group’s performance.
These financial performance measures are chosen 
to provide a balanced view of the Group’s operations 
and are considered useful to investors as these 
measures provide relevant information on the 
Group’s past or future performance, position or 
cash flows.
The APMs adopted by the Group are also commonly 
used in the sectors it operates in and therefore 
serve as a useful aid for investors to compare 
Balfour Beatty’s performance to its peers.
The Board believes that disclosing these performance 
measures enhances investors’ ability to evaluate 
and assess the underlying financial performance 
of the Group’s operations and the related key 
business drivers.
These financial performance measures are also 
aligned to measures used internally to assess 
business performance in the Group’s budgeting 
process and when determining compensation.
Equivalent information cannot be presented by 
using financial measures defined in the financial 
reporting framework alone.
Performance measures used to 
assess the Group’s operations
Underlying profit from operations (PFO)
Underlying PFO is presented before non‑underlying 
items, finance costs and investment income and 
is the key measure used to assess the Group’s 
performance in the Construction Services and 
Support Services segments. This is also a 
common measure used by the Group’s peers 
operating in these sectors.
This measure reflects the returns to the Group 
from services provided in these operations that 
are generated from activities that are not financing 
in nature and therefore an underlying pre-finance 
cost measure is more suited to assessing 
underlying performance.
Underlying profit before tax (PBT)
The Group assesses performance in its Infrastructure 
Investments segment using an underlying PBT 
measure. This differs from the underlying PFO 
measure used to measure the Group’s Construction 
Services and Support Services segments because 
in addition to margins generated from operations, 
there are returns to the Investments business 
which are generated from the financing element 
of its projects.
These returns take the form of subordinated debt 
interest receivable, interest receivable on PPP 
financial assets and fair value gains on certain 
investment assets, which are included in the 
Group’s income statement in investment income. 
These are then offset by the finance cost incurred 
on the non-recourse debt associated with the 
underlying projects, fair value losses on certain 
investment assets and any impairment of 
subordinated debt and accrued interest receivable, 
which are included in the Group’s income 
statement in finance costs.
Operating cash flow (OCF)
The Group uses an internally defined measure of 
OCF to measure the performance of its earningsbased businesses and subsequently to determine 
the amount of incentive awarded to employees in 
these businesses under the Group’s Annual 
Incentive Plan (AIP). This measure also aligns to 
one of the vesting conditions attributable to the 
Group’s PSP awards. Refer to pages 166 to 168.
Measuring the Group’s performance
The following measures are referred to in this 
Annual Report and Accounts when reporting 
performance, both in absolute terms and also in 
comparison to earlier years.
Statutory measures
Statutory measures are derived from the Group’s 
reported financial statements, which have been 
prepared in accordance with UK-adopted international 
accounting standards (IFRS) and in conformity 
with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Where a standard allows certain interpretations to 
be adopted, the Group has applied its accounting 
policies consistently. These accounting policies 
can be found on pages 199 to 206.
The Group’s statutory measures take into account 
all of the factors, including those that it cannot 
influence (principally foreign currency fluctuations) 
and also non-recurring items which do not reflect 
the ongoing underlying performance of the Group.
Performance measures
In assessing its performance, the Group has 
adopted certain non-statutory measures because, 
unlike its statutory measures, these cannot be 
derived directly from its financial statements.
The Group commonly uses the following 
measures to assess its performance:
Readers of the Annual Report and Accounts 
are encouraged to review the financial 
statements in their entirety.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

81
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
a) Order book
The Group’s disclosure of its order book is aimed 
to provide insight into its pipeline of work and 
future performance. The Group’s order book is 
not a measure of past performance and therefore 
cannot be derived from its financial statements.
The Group’s order book comprises the 
unexecuted element of orders on contracts that 
have been secured. Where contracts are subject 
to variations, only secured contract variations are 
included in the reported order book.
Where contracts fall under framework 
agreements, an estimate is made of orders to be 
secured under that framework agreement. This is 
based on historical trends from similar framework 
agreements delivered in the past and the estimate 
of orders included in the order book is that which 
is probable to be secured.
In accordance with IFRS 15 Revenue from 
Contracts with Customers, the Group is required 
to disclose the remaining transaction price allocated 
to performance obligations not yet delivered. This 
can be found in Note 4.3. This is similar to the 
Group’s order book disclosure, however it differs 
for the following reasons:
 
@ the Group’s order book includes its share of 
orders that are reported within its joint ventures 
and associates. In line with section (e), the 
Board believes that including orders that are 
within the pipeline of its joint ventures and 
associates better reflects the size of the 
business and the volume of work to be carried 
out in the future. This differs from the statutory 
measure of transaction price to be allocated to 
remaining performance obligations which is 
only inclusive of secured revenue from the 
Group’s subsidiaries;
These are non-underlying costs as they do not relate to the underlying performance of the Group.
From time to time, it may be appropriate to disclose further items as non-underlying items in order 
to reflect the underlying performance of the Group.
Further details of non-underlying items are provided in Note 10.
A reconciliation has been provided on page 82 to show how the Group’s statutory results are adjusted to 
exclude non-underlying items and their impact on its statutory financial information, both as a whole and 
in respect of specific line items.
Reconciliation of order book to transaction price to be allocated to remaining 
performance obligations
2024 
£m
2023
£m
Order book (performance measure) 
18,443
16,532
Less: 
Share of orders included within the Group’s joint ventures and 
associates
(2,322)
(2,344)
Add: 
Transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations in 
Infrastructure Investments*
2,616
1,917
Transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations for the 
Group* (statutory measure)
18,737
16,105
* Refer to Note 4.3.
 
@ as stated above, for contracts that fall under 
framework agreements, the Group includes in 
its order book an estimate of what the orders 
under these agreements will be worth. Under 
IFRS 15, each instruction under the framework 
agreement is viewed as a separate 
performance obligation and is included in the 
statutory measure of the remaining transaction 
price when received but estimates for future 
instructions are not; and
 
@ the Group’s order book does not include revenue 
to be earned in its Infrastructure Investments 
segment as the value of this part of the 
business is driven by the Directors’ valuation of 
the Investments portfolio. Refer to section (i).
b) Underlying performance
The Group adjusts for certain non-underlying 
items which the Board believes assists in 
understanding the performance achieved 
by the Group. These items include:
 
@ gains and losses on the disposal of businesses 
and investments, unless this is part of a programme 
of releasing value from the disposal of similar 
businesses or investments such as 
infrastructure concessions;
 
@ costs of major restructuring and reorganisation 
of existing businesses;
 
@ costs of integrating newly acquired businesses;
 
@ acquisition and similar costs related to business 
combinations such as transaction costs;
 
@ impairment and amortisation charges 
on intangible assets arising on business 
combinations (amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets); and
 
@ impairment of goodwill. 
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
82
82
Measuring the Group’s performance continued
Performance measures continued
b) Underlying performance continued
Reconciliation of 2024 statutory results to performance measures
Non-underlying items
Non-underlying items
2024 
statutory 
results
£m
Intangible 
amortisation
£m
Net release of 
provisions 
relating to Rail 
Germany
£m
Recognition of 
insurance for 
rectification 
works in 
London
£m 
Provision 
recognised for 
BSA claims
£m 
Recognition of 
charge for claim 
on legacy 
project in Texas 
£m
2024 
performance 
measures
£m
2023 
statutory 
results
£m
Intangible 
amortisation
£m
Provision for 
rectification 
works in 
London
£m
2023 
performance 
measures
£m
Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 
(performance)
10,015
–
–
–
–
–
10,015
9,595
–
–
9,595
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates
(1,781)
–
–
–
–
–
(1,781)
(1,602)
–
–
(1,602)
Group revenue (statutory) 
8,234
–
–
–
–
–
8,234
7,993
–
–
7,993
Cost of sales
(7,883)
–
(26)
(43)
83
52
(7,817)
(7,593)
–
12
(7,581)
Gross profit
 351
–
(26)
(43)
83
52
417
400
–
12
412
Gain on disposals of interests in investments 
43
–
–
–
–
–
43
24
–
–
24
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets
(4)
4
–
–
–
–
–
(5)
5
–
–
Other operating expenses
(276)
–
5
–
–
–
(271)
(261)
–
–
(261)
Group operating profit
114
4
(21)
(43)
83
52
189
158
5
12
175
Share of results of joint ventures and associates
59
–
–
–
–
–
59
53
–
–
53
Profit from operations
173
4
(21)
(43)
83
52
248
211
5
12
228
Investment income
82
–
–
–
–
–
82
82
–
–
82
Finance costs
(41)
–
–
–
–
–
(41)
(49)
–
–
(49)
Profit before taxation
214
4
(21)
(43)
83
52
289
244
5
12
261
Taxation
(36)
(1)
(2)
11
(21)
(13)
(62)
(50)
(3)
(3)
(56)
Profit for the year
178
3
(23)
(32)
62
39
227
194
2
9
205
Reconciliation of 2024 statutory results to performance measures by segment
Non-underlying items
Non-underlying items
Profit/(loss) from operations
2024 
statutory 
results
£m
Intangible 
amortisation
£m
Net release of 
provisions 
relating to Rail 
Germany
£m
Recognition of 
insurance for 
rectification 
works in 
London
£m 
Provision 
recognised for 
BSA claims
£m 
Recognition of 
charge for claim 
on legacy 
project in Texas
£m
2024 
performance 
measures
£m
2023 
statutory 
results
£m
Intangible 
amortisation
£m
Provision for 
rectification 
works in 
London
£m
2023 
performance 
measures
£m
Segment
Construction Services 
87
1
(21)
(43)
83
52
159
143
1
12
156
Support Services
93
–
–
–
–
–
93
80
–
–
80
Infrastructure Investments
32
3
–
–
–
–
35
27
4
–
31
Corporate activities 
(39)
–
–
–
–
–
(39)
(39)
–
–
(39)
Total 
173
4
(21)
(43)
83
52
248
211
5
12
228
MEASURING OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

83
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
c) Underlying profit before tax
As mentioned on page 80, the Group’s Infrastructure Investments segment is assessed on an underlying 
profit before tax (PBT) measure. This is calculated as follows:
2024
£m
2023
£m
Underlying profit from operations (section (b) and Note 5) 
35
31
Add: Subordinated debt interest receivable*
17
34
Add: Interest receivable on PPP financial assets* 
2
2
Less: Fair value loss on investment asset*
(2)
(1)
Less: Non-recourse borrowings finance cost*
(12)
(11)
Add/(Less): 
Net impairment reversal/(impairment) of subordinated debt 
and accrued interest receivable*
14
(8)
Underlying profit before tax (performance)
54
47
Non-underlying items (section (b) and Note 5)
(3)
(4)
Statutory profit before tax
51
43
* Refer to Note 8 and Note 9.
d) Underlying earnings per share
In line with the Group’s measurement of underlying performance, the Group also presents its earnings 
per share (EPS) on an underlying basis. The table below reconciles this to the statutory earnings per share.
Reconciliation from statutory basic EPS to performance EPS
2024
Pence
2023
Pence
Statutory basic earnings per ordinary share 
34.2
35.3
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets after tax
0.6
0.4
Other non-underlying items after tax
8.8
1.6
Underlying basic earnings per ordinary share (performance)
43.6
37.3
e) Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates (JVAs)
The Group uses a revenue measure which is inclusive of its share of revenue generated from its JVAs. 
As the Group uses revenue as a measure of the level of activity performed by the Group, the Board 
believes that including revenue that is earned from its JVAs better reflects the size of the business 
and the volume of work carried out and more appropriately compares to PFO.
This differs from the statutory measure of revenue which presents Group revenue from its subsidiaries.
A reconciliation of the statutory measure of revenue to the Group’s performance measure is shown 
in the tables in section (b). A comparison of the growth rates in statutory and performance revenue 
can be found in section (j).
f) Operating cash flow (OCF)
The table below reconciles the Group’s internal performance measure of OCF to the statutory measure 
of cash generated from operating activities as reported in the Group statement of cash flows (page 196). 
Reconciliation from statutory cash generated from operations to OCF
2024
£m
2023
£m
Cash generated from operating activities (statutory)
265
285
Add back: Pension payments including deficit funding (Note 31.2)
30
28
Less: 
Repayment of lease liabilities (including lease interest payments) 
(Note 29)
(66)
(63)
Add: 
Operational dividends received from joint ventures and associates 
(Note 20.5)
71
59
Add back: Cash flow movements relating to non-operating items 
13
9
Less: Operating cash flows relating to non-recourse activities 
(24)
(8)
Operating cash flow (OCF) (performance) 
289
310
The Group includes/excludes these items to reflect the true cash flows generated from or used in the 
Group’s operating activities: 
Pension payments including deficit funding (£30 million): the Group has excluded pension payments 
which are included in the Group’s statutory measure of cash flows from operating activities from its 
internal OCF measure as these primarily relate to deficit funding of the Group’s main pension fund, 
Balfour Beatty Pension Fund (BBPF). The payments made for deficit funding are in accordance with 
an agreed journey plan with the trustees of the BBPF and are not directly linked to the operational 
performance of the Group. 
Repayment of lease liabilities (including lease interest payments) (£66 million outflow): the payments 
made for the Group’s leasing arrangements are included in the Group’s OCF measure as these 
payments are made to third-party suppliers for the lease of assets that are used to deliver services to 
the Group’s customers, and hence to generate revenue. Under IFRS, these payments are excluded from 
the Group’s statutory measure of cash flows from operating activities as these are considered debt in 
nature under accounting standards. 
Operational dividends received from joint ventures and associates (£71 million inflow): dividends received 
from joint ventures and associates which are generated from non-disposal activities are included in the 
Group’s OCF measure as these are cash returns to the Group from cash flows generated from operating 
activities within joint ventures and associates. Under IFRS, these returns are classified as investing activities. 
Cash flow movements relating to non-operating items (£13 million): the Group’s OCF measure excludes 
certain working capital movements that are not directly attributable to the Group’s operating activities. 
Operating cash flows relating to non-recourse activities (£24 million): the Group’s OCF measure is 
specifically targeted to drive performance improvement in the Group’s earnings-based businesses and 
therefore any operating cash flows relating to non-recourse activities are removed from this measure. 
Under IFRS, there is no distinction between recourse and non-recourse cash flows. 
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
84
84
Measuring the Group’s performance continued
Performance measures continued
g) Recourse net cash/borrowings
The Group also measures its performance based on its net cash/borrowings position at the year end. 
This is analysed by excluding elements that are non-recourse to the Group as well as lease liabilities. 
Non-recourse elements are cash and debt that are ring-fenced within certain infrastructure concession 
project companies and are excluded from the definition of net debt set out in the Group’s borrowing 
facilities. In addition, lease liabilities which are deemed to be debt in nature under statutory measures 
are also excluded from the Group’s definition of net cash/borrowings as these are viewed to be 
operational in nature reflecting payments made in exchange for use of assets. 
Net cash/borrowings reconciliation
2024
statutory
£m
Adjustment
£m
2024
performance
£m
2023
statutory
£m
Adjustment
£m
2023
performance
£m
Total cash within 
the Group 
1,558
(265)
1,293
1,414
(306)
1,108
Cash and cash equivalents
– 
infrastructure 
concessions 
265
(265)
–
306
(306)
–
– other
1,293
–
1,293
1,108
–
1,108
Total debt within 
the Group 
(1,112)
762
(350)
(979)
713
(266)
Borrowings
– non-recourse loans
(600)
600
–
(570)
570
–
– other
(350)
–
(350)
(266)
–
(266)
Lease liabilities
(162)
162
–
(143)
143
–
Net cash
446
497
943
435
407
842
h) Average net cash/borrowings
The Group uses an average net cash/borrowings measure as this reflects its financing requirements 
throughout the year. The Group calculates its average net cash/borrowings based on the average opening 
and closing figures for each month through the year.
The average net cash/borrowings measure excludes non-recourse cash and debt and lease liabilities, 
and this performance measure shows average net cash of £766 million for 2024 (2023: £700 million).
Using a statutory measure (inclusive of non-recourse elements and the lease liabilities recognised) 
gives average net cash of £441 million for 2024 (2023: £438 million).
MEASURING OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE CONTINUED
i) Directors’ valuation of the Investments portfolio
The Group uses a different methodology to assess the value of its Investments portfolio. As described on 
pages 38 and 39, the Directors’ valuation for most of the investments in the portfolio has been undertaken 
using forecast cash flows for each project on an asset by asset basis, based on progress to date and market 
expectations of future performance. These cash flows have been discounted using different discount rates 
depending on project risk and maturity, reflecting secondary market transaction experience. As such, the 
Board believes that this measure better reflects the potential returns to the Group from those investments.
The Directors have valued the Investments portfolio at £1.25 billion at year end (2023: £1.21 billion).
The Directors’ valuation will differ from the statutory carrying value of these investments, which are accounted 
for using the relevant standards in accordance with IFRS rather than a discounted cash flow approach.
Reconciliation of the net assets of the Infrastructure Investments segment to the comparable 
statutory measure of the Investments portfolio included in the Directors’ valuation
2024
£m
2023
£m
Net assets of the Infrastructure Investments segment (refer to Note 5.1)
626
596
Less: 
Net assets not included within the Directors’ valuation – Housing 
division 
(60)
(53)
Comparable statutory measure of the Investments portfolio under IFRS
566
543
Comparison of the statutory measure of the Investments portfolio to its performance measure
2024
£m
2023
£m
Statutory measure of the Investments portfolio (as above)
566
543
Difference arising from the Directors’ valuation being measured on a 
discounted cash flow basis compared to the statutory measure primarily 
derived using a combination of the following IFRS bases:
– historical cost
– amortised cost
– fair value
688
669
Directors’ valuation (performance measure)
1,254
1,212
The difference between the statutory measure and the Directors’ valuation (performance measure) of 
the Group’s Investments portfolio is not equal to the gain on disposal that would result if the portfolio 
was fully disposed at the Directors’ valuation. This is because the gain/loss on disposal would be 
affected by the recycling of items which were previously recognised directly within reserves, which 
are material and can alter the resulting gain/loss on disposal.
The statutory measure and the Directors’ valuation are fundamentally different due to the different 
methodologies used to derive the valuation of these assets within the Investments portfolio.
As referred to in the Strategic report on pages 38 and 39, the Directors’ valuation for most investments 
is calculated using discounted cash flows. In deriving these cash flows, assumptions have been made 
and different discount rates used which are updated at each valuation date.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

85
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
Unlike the Directors’ valuation, the assets measured under statutory measures using the appropriate IFRS accounting standards are valued using a combination of the following methods:
 
@ historical cost;
 
@ amortised cost; and
 
@ fair value for certain assets and liabilities within the PPP portfolio, for which some assumptions are set at inception and some are updated at each valuation date.
There is also an element of the Directors’ valuation that is not represented by an asset in the Group’s balance sheet. This relates to the management services contracts within the Investments business that are 
valued in the Directors’ valuation based on the future income stream expected from these contracts.
j) Constant exchange rates (CER)
The Group operates across a variety of geographic locations and in its statutory results, the results of its overseas entities are translated into the Group’s presentational currency at average rates of exchange for 
the year. The Group’s key exchange rates applied in deriving its statutory results are shown in Note 3.
To measure changes in the Group’s performance compared with the previous year without the effects of foreign currency fluctuations, the Group provides growth rates on a CER basis. These measures remove the 
effects of currency movements by retranslating the prior year’s figures at the current year’s exchange rates, using average rates for revenue and closing rates for order book. A comparison of the Group’s statutory 
growth rate to the CER growth rate is provided in the table below:
2024 statutory growth compared to performance growth
Construction Services
UK
US
Gammon
Total 
Support 
Services
Infrastructure
 Investments
Total
Revenue (£m)
2024 statutory
3,011
3,619
–
6,630
1,210
394
8,234
2023 statutory 
3,027
3,668
–
6,695
1,006
292
7,993
Statutory growth 
(1)%
(1)%
–
(1)%
20%
35%
3%
2024 performance*
3,011
3,638
1,550
8,199
1,210
606
10,015
2023 performance retranslated*
3,027
3,594
1,324
7,945
1,006
498
9,449
Performance CER growth 
(1)%
1%
17%
3%
20%
22%
6%
Order book (£bn)
2024 
6.2
7.1
1.9
15.2
3.2
–
18.4
2023
6.1
5.6
2.0
13.7
2.8
–
16.5
Growth
2%
27%
(5)%
11%
14%
–
12%
2024
6.2
7.1
1.9
15.2
3.2
–
18.4
2023 retranslated
6.1
5.7
2.1
13.9
2.8
–
16.7
CER growth 
2%
25%
(10)%
9%
14%
–
10%
* Performance revenue is underlying revenue including share of revenue from joint ventures and associates as set out in section (e).
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
86
86
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER’S REVIEW 
Profitable growth from earnings-based businesses
An explanation of the Group’s financial performance 
measures and appropriate reconciliations to its 
statutory measures are provided in the Measuring 
Our Financial Performance section. Non-underlying 
items are the cause of the differences between 
underlying and statutory profitability. Additionally, 
revenue includes the Group’s share of revenue of 
joint ventures and associates.
Group financial summary
Balfour Beatty’s underlying results in 2024 
show good progress at a Group level. Revenue 
increased by 4% (6% at CER) to £10,015 million 
(2023: £9,595 million) driven by increases in 
Gammon and Support Services. Statutory revenue, 
which excludes joint ventures and associates, 
was £8,234 million (2023: £7
,993 million). 
The underlying profit from operations for the year 
increased to £248 million (2023: £228 million) 
driven by an increase in PFO from the earnings‑based 
businesses and higher gains on investment disposals, 
partially offset by an underlying pre-disposal loss 
in Infrastructure Investments. Statutory profit from 
operations was £173 million (2023: £211 million). 
Net finance income of £41 million (2023: £33 million) 
improved as a result of higher interest rates and 
impairment write backs of subordinated debt. 
Underlying pre-tax profit was £289 million 
(2023: £261 million). The taxation charge on 
underlying profits increased to £62 million 
(2023: £56 million). This resulted in underlying 
profit after tax of £227 million (2023: £205 million). 
Total statutory profit after tax for the year was 
£178 million (2023: £194 million), as a result of 
the net effect of non-underlying items. 
Philip Harrison
Chief Financial Officer
2024 PERFORMANCE
2024 delivered 
profitable growth
 
@ 7% profit increase from 
earnings-based 
businesses
 
@ Increased net cash 
and strong order 
book growth
Outlook for 
profitable growth 
 
@ £18.4 billion high‑quality 
order book
 
@ Further growth in 
earnings-based 
businesses in 2025 
and 2026
Consistent
shareholder returns
 
@ Increased dividend 
and fifth annual 
share buyback
 
@ T
otal shareholder 
returns of c. £188 
million in 2025
Sustained profitable growth and continued shareholder returns
UNDERLYING PROFIT/(LOSS) FROM OPERATIONS2
2024
£m
2023
£m
UK Construction
81
69
US Construction
40
51
Gammon
38
36
Construction Services
159
156
Support Services
93
80
Earnings-based businesses
252
236
Infrastructure Investments pre-disposal operating (loss) / profit
(8)
5
Infrastructure Investments gain on disposals
43
26
Corporate activities
(39)
(39)
Total underlying profit from operations
248
228
2 Before non-underlying items (Note 10).
Underlying basic earnings per share were 43.6 pence (2023: 37
.3 pence), which, along with a non-underlying 
loss per share of 9.4 pence (2023: 2.0 pence), gave a total basic earnings per share of 34.2 pence 
(2023: 35.3 pence). This included the benefit from the basic weighted average number of ordinary shares 
reducing to 521 million (2023: 558 million) as a result of the Group’s share buyback programme.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

87
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
Non-underlying items
The Board believes non-underlying items should 
be separately identified on the face of the income 
statement to assist in understanding the underlying 
financial performance achieved by the Group. 
Non-underlying items after taxation were a net 
charge of £49 million for the year (2023: £11 million). 
This included four significant items.
Firstly, a charge of £83 million has been recognised 
in relation to the Group’s obligations under the UK 
Building Safety Act (BSA). The BSA, which was 
introduced in 2022, extends the limitation for 
claims under the Defective Premises Act 1972 
from 6 years to 30 years for dwellings completed 
before 28 June 2022. Since the introduction of the 
BSA, the Group has conducted investigations and 
due diligence on claims received to establish 
whether an obligation exists and if costs can be 
reliably estimated. Previously, the charge relating 
to this provision has been recognised within the 
Group’s underlying results as the amounts recognised 
did not result in a distortion of the Group’s underlying 
results. In 2024, following developments in the 
legal landscape of the BSA and progression of the 
Group’s investigations, the Group has reassessed 
its provision for BSA claims resulting in an increase 
in the provision of £83 million. The provision does 
not include potential recoveries from third parties 
and the resulting cash outflow is expected over a 
number of years. This increase has been recognised 
in non-underlying due to its size and the nature of 
the cost, which has arisen from a change in legislation. 
The Group continues to recognise defects on 
projects not covered by the BSA as part of its 
underlying performance.
Secondly, a charge of £52 million has been recognised 
in relation to a US Civils project completed in 2012. 
The Group, through a joint operation formed with 
Fluor Enterprises Inc. in which the Group owns a 
40% share, completed a contract with the North 
Texas Tollway Authority (NTTA) to provide design 
and build services in relation to the extension of 
NTTA
’s President George Bush Turnpike Highway 
(SH161 in Texas). In October 2022, NTTA served 
the joint operation with a claim demanding damages 
of an unquantified amount under various claims 
relating to alleged breaches of contract and or 
negligence in relation to retaining walls along the 
project. In November 2024, through a jury verdict, 
damages were awarded against the joint operation 
in favour of NTTA amounting to $112m (Group’s share). 
This jury verdict was substantially above the claim 
presented to the court of $77m (Group’s share) 
comprising $8m expended to date and $69m for 
possible repair costs over the next 10 years. The 
NTTA has moved to enter the verdict as a judgement 
and is also requesting pre-judgement interest of 
$50m (Group’s share) plus legal costs. The joint 
operation has opposed the NTTA
’s motion and the 
court has yet to issue a decision on that motion 
with a court date set for 27 March 2025. The Group 
believes that the jury verdict does not accurately 
reflect the evidence at trial and is evaluating all 
options to set aside or reduce the verdict and, if 
necessary, appeal any final judgement. The appeal 
would require a surety bond of $10m (Group share) 
to be provided in place of settling the judgement. 
However, in light of the jury verdict, the Group has 
recognised a non-underlying charge of £52m. This 
charge, which is net of insurance recoveries of 
£40m for which the Group has received confirmation 
of cover from its insurers, represents the Group’s 
best estimate of the probable damages to be 
awarded. The Group maintains the view that these 
damages are a result of design elements of the 
contract which were performed by subcontractors 
to the joint operation. The Group, together with its 
joint operation partner, is pursuing recoveries from 
these subcontractors, however at this stage, the 
Group has not recognised any potential recoveries 
from these parties.
Thirdly, the Group has recognised a credit of £43 million 
for an insurance receivable relating to rectification 
work, for which the cost had previously been 
provided. In 2021, the Group recognised a provision 
of £42 million within non-underlying in relation to 
rectification work to be carried out on a development 
in London which was constructed by the Group 
between 2013 and 2016. In 2023, the Group 
increased this provision to £54 million following 
a reassessment of the rectification cost. The 
additional charge to the income statement was 
also recognised in non-underlying. The Group’s 
estimated provision did not include potential 
recoveries from third parties. In 2024, rectification 
work continued to progress and is expected to 
complete in the first half of 2025. In July 2024, 
the Group received confirmation from its insurers that the rectification work qualifies for insurance coverage. 
Upon assessment of the interim cost by the insurer’s loss adjusters as well as receipt of cash for the first 
application for payment submitted by the Group for a portion of the cost incurred to date, the Group has 
recognised an insurance recovery of £43 million. The Group has presented this income within non-underlying 
in line with the presentation adopted for the recognition of the provision.
Finally, a net credit of £21 million was recognised in the Group’s Rail Germany operations. In 2024, the two 
remaining contracts held within Rail Germany reached the end of their warranty periods, resulting in the 
release of warranty provisions held in respect of these contracts. This release has been credited to the 
Group’s income statement within non-underlying, net of provision increases relating to certain legacy 
liabilities remaining within the business.
Further detail is provided in Note 10.
Cash flow performance
The Group’s net cash increased by £101 million in the year (2023: £27 million), resulting in a year end 
net cash position of £943 million (2023: £842 million), excluding non-recourse net borrowings and lease 
liabilities. Cash from operations, which included a working capital inflow, was partially offset by shareholder 
returns, while capital expenditure reduced in 2024 to a more normalised level following a peak year for 
capital expenditure in 2023. 
CASH FLOW PERFORMANCE
2024
£m
2023
£m
Operating cash flows before working capital movements and pension 
deficit payments
208
258
Working capital inflow / (outflow)
99
63
Pension deficit payments+
(30)
(28)
Cash from operations
277
293
Lease payments (including interest paid)
(66)
(63)
Dividends from joint ventures and associates∞
71
59
Capital expenditure
(28)
(66)
Share buybacks
(101)
(151)
Dividends paid
(61)
(58)
Infrastructure Investments
– disposal proceeds
43
61
– new investments
(28)
(31)
Other 
(6)
(17)
Net cash movement
101
27
Opening net cash*
842
815
Closing net cash*
943
842
* Excluding infrastructure investments (non-recourse) net borrowings and lease liabilities.
+ Including £2 million (2023: £3 million) of regular funding.
∞ 2023 excludes £1 million (2024: nil) dividends received in relation to Investments asset disposals within joint ventures and associates.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
88
88
WORKING CAPITAL 
A working capital inflow of £99 million (2023: £63 million) was favourable to the outflow previously 
expected for the year.
Working capital flows^
2024
£m
2023
£m
Inventories
(34)
(11)
Net contract assets
165
(48)
Trade and other receivables
(225)
(73)
Trade and other payables
(6)
177
Provisions
199
18
Working capital inflow/(outflow)^
99
63
^ Excluding impact of foreign exchange.
Including the impact of foreign exchange and non-operating items, negative (i.e. favourable) current 
working capital reduced slightly to £1,228 million (2023: £1,232 million). Negative working capital as 
a percentage of revenue for 2024 was 14.9% (2023: 15.4%). 
Net cash/borrowings 
The Group’s average net cash increased to £766 million in 2024 (2023: £700 million). The Group’s year 
end net cash position, excluding non-recourse net borrowings and lease liabilities, was £943 million 
(2023: £842 million). 
Non-recourse net borrowings, held in Infrastructure Investments entities consolidated by the Group, 
were £335 million (2023: £264 million). The balance sheet also included £162 million for lease liabilities 
(2023: £143 million). Statutory net cash at 31 December 2024 was £446 million (2023: £435 million).
Share buyback 
On 2 January 2024, Balfour Beatty commenced an initial £50 million tranche of its 2024 share buyback 
programme, which was subsequently increased, following the release of its 2023 full year results, to 
£100 million on 13 March 2024. The Group completed the 2024 share buyback programme on 20 
September 2024, having purchased 27
.1 million shares, which were held in treasury. These shares were 
subsequently cancelled on 31 October 2024. The Group commenced the initial £50 million tranche of its 
2025 share buyback programme on 6 January 2025. As announced today, the Group intends to buyback 
a total of £125 million of shares during the 2025 phase of its multi-year share buyback programme.
Banking facilities
In the year, the Group extended its core Revolving Credit Facility (RCF) by one year, to June 2028, with 
the support of the lending bank group. The facility was reduced to £450 million (2023: £475 million) in 
the extension process. The RCF remains a Sustainability Linked Loan (SLL) and subsequent to the 
extension, in July 2024 new SLL metrics and targets were agreed with the lending bank group. 
The Group continues to be incentivised to deliver annual measurable performance improvement 
in three key areas: Carbon Emissions, Social Value generation and an independent Environment, 
Social and Governance (ESG) rating score. The RCF remained undrawn at 31 December 2024.
CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER’S REVIEW CONTINUED
The Group retains an additional £30 million 
bilateral committed facility that has materially the 
same terms and conditions as the RCF
. The facility 
is also an SLL, including metrics that mirror the 
RCF
. In the second half of the year, the Group 
triggered its extension option in respect of 
the bilateral facility, to extend the maturity to 
December 2027
. As at 31 December 2024, 
the facility remained undrawn. 
Debt refinancing 
During 2024, the Group completed the early 
refinancing of US$50 million of US Private 
Placement (USPP) notes that were set to mature 
in March 2025. The Group raised US$50 million of 
new USPP notes, on terms and conditions that 
mirror existing debt facilities, and used this new 
funding to complete the early repayment of the 
US$50 million 2025 USPP notes. The new debt is 
comprised of US$25 million of 7-year notes, 
maturing in May 2031 at a fixed coupon of 6.71%, 
and US$25 million of 12-year notes, maturing in 
May 2036 at a fixed coupon of 6.96%. 
The refinancing 
exercise has extended the debt maturity profile of 
the Group until 2036, with the next debt maturity 
now in June 2027 (US$35 million USPP notes).
Going concern
The Directors have considered the Group’s 
medium-term cash forecasts and conducted 
stress-test analysis on these projections in order 
to assess the Group’s ability to continue as a 
going concern. Having also made appropriate 
enquiries, the Directors consider it reasonable to 
assume that the Group has adequate resources to 
continue for the period of at least 12 months from 
the date of approval of the financial statements 
and, for this reason, have continued to adopt the 
going concern basis in preparing the full year 
Group financial statements. Further detail is 
provided in Note 1.3 Going Concern.
Pensions
Balfour Beatty and the trustees of the Balfour Beatty 
Pension Fund (BBPF) have agreed to a journey 
plan approach to managing the BBPF whereby 
the BBPF is aiming to reach self-sufficiency by 
2027
. The Company and the trustees agreed the 
31 March 2022 formal valuation in 2023 and, as a 
result, Balfour Beatty paid deficit contributions to 
the BBPF of £22 million in 2024 with a further 
£6 million payable in 2025. The next formal 
triennial valuation of BBPF is due with effect 
from 31 March 2025.
The Company and trustees of the Railways 
Pension Scheme (RPS) agreed the 31 December 
2022 formal valuation in the first half of 2024 and, 
as a result, Balfour Beatty agreed to continue 
making deficit contributions of £6 million per 
annum until February 2025. The next formal 
triennial funding valuation of the RPS is due 
with effect from 31 December 2025.
The Group’s balance sheet includes net retirement 
benefit assets of £2 million (2023: £69 million) as 
measured on an IAS 19 basis, with the surplus on 
the BBPF (£43 million) largely offset by deficits on 
RPS (£7 million) and other schemes (£34 million). 
Dividend 
The Board is committed to a sustainable ordinary 
dividend which is expected to grow over time, 
targeted at a pay-out ratio of 40% of underlying 
profit after tax excluding gains on disposal of 
Investments assets. 
Following the 3.8 pence per ordinary share interim 
dividend declared at the half year, the Board is 
recommending a final dividend of 8.7 pence per 
share, giving a total recommended dividend for 
the year of 12.5 pence per share (2023: 11.5 
pence per share).
Philip Harrison
Chief Financial Officer
11 March 2025
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

89
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
RISK MANAGEMENT
Navigating the future
Introduction
The Group’s risk management framework and associated 
processes provide a consistent platform for monitoring and 
responding to any potential exposures that may affect the 
business and ensure key drivers that exist against core Group 
risks are tracked effectively. 2024 saw a continuation of the 
Group’s risk management process in tracking an evolving risk 
profile, in a year where prolonged uncertainty within the economy 
persisted, both for the construction sector and beyond. This was 
caused by interest rates in core territories remaining high, the 
residual impact being felt from high inflation and the backdrop of 
additional uncertainty presented by two significant elections, with 
subsequent administration change in both the UK and US. With 
the Group’s focus on growth, and a shift into new markets, the 
monitoring of key risk themes such as People, Economy, Supply 
Chain, Contracting Terms and Conditions and Project Delivery was 
a focus on 2024. 
To improve insight into the Group risk profile in 2024, the biannual 
risk reporting process issued to Strategic Business Units (SBUs) 
was updated to request specific responses on how risks are 
assessed at SBU level for the Group key risk themes, and any 
movements, trends or change in conditions as reflected through 
business-level risk registers. This provided further supporting 
analysis for reflecting exposure from these themes at Group level.
The Group’s risk process continues to provide a consistent 
approach and taxonomy across the organisation. As the integration 
of the Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework evolves, 
and risk management maturity within the business improves, the 
central Group Risk Management function maintains oversight to 
ensure processes remain effective and continues to ensure Group 
adherence to regulatory requirements and good practice in its approach 
to identifying, assessing, responding to and monitoring risk.
Balfour Beatty’s risk management process
Consistent and simple Group-wide application of the risk management process
IDENTIFY
 
@ Objective-focused risk 
identification linked to 
operational, business 
and Group objectives 
 
@ 
Identification of core 
drivers (causes) and 
anticipated outcomes 
(consequences) 
 
@ 
Captures current 
control environment 
and its effectiveness
ASSESS
 
@ Assessment of the 
impact of the risk and 
the probability of it 
occurring, using the 
Group Probability Impact 
(PI) Matrix 
 
@ 
Assessment is based 
on the effectiveness of 
current controls 
 
@ 
Consistent assessment 
utilising Group PI Matrix 
allows risks and 
opportunities to 
be prioritised 
1
2
RESPOND
 
@ Response type ‘
Accept’ 
or ‘Manage Further’ is 
assigned to each risk 
and opportunity based 
on current assessment 
and appetite
 
@ Response of Manage 
Further drives 
identification of actions 
 
@ Actions are assigned 
ownership and due 
dates and are tracked for 
completion alongside 
risk exposure 
MONITOR
 
@ Risk environment 
monitored to identify 
change in, or emergence 
of, causes and 
consequences 
 
@ Risk response is 
reviewed in line with 
current risk assessment 
 
@ Completion of actions 
and their effect on 
reducing exposure
3
4
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
90
90
Our risk management process
Balfour Beatty’s simple four-step process ensures the consistent identification, assessment, response 
to, and monitoring of risk across the organisation. Utilising this standard process from project operations 
up to Group level ensures risks are captured, assessed and communicated concisely at each level of the 
organisation. Embedding this process into operational and business environments ensures the 
consideration of risk and opportunity remains central to making decisions. 
PROJECT
TEAM
CUSTOMER
GEOGRAPHY
CONTRACT
SUPPLY 
CHAIN
CIRCLES OF RISK
Circles of Risk
Balfour Beatty’s Circles of Risk continues to act as 
a core control designed to frame risk-based 
discussions early on in the Gated Business 
Lifecycle review process, ensuring new pursuits 
remain in line with our appetite around location, 
customer, supply chain, project scope and 
contractual terms, and align to the Group’s strategic 
direction. The Gated Business Lifecycle is a 
business-wide method of reviewing, approving 
and monitoring new business opportunities.
The Circles of Risk guidance supports work 
winning teams in ensuring high-level risks are 
understood early in the pursuit of a project and 
acts as a key control in highlighting any ‘show 
stoppers’. It drives teams to consider the key risks 
and sets out response types to such risks as the 
opportunity evolves through approval gates.
The guidance reflects experience from past 
delivery and lessons learnt across a diverse 
customer base, with proposed controls aligned to 
the Group’s operating and commercial principles.
Circles of Risk continues 
to act as a core control 
designed to frame risk-based 
discussions early on in the 
Gated Business Lifecycle 
review process.”
RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
This approach allows Balfour Beatty to make 
decisions in the context of its risk appetite and 
stay ahead of potential exposures by ensuring:
 
@ the opportunity aligns to Group objectives, 
business growth strategies and defined 
risk tolerances;
 
@ all pursuits are assessed consistently so that 
potential opportunities that do not fit with 
approved business objectives are qualified 
out; and
 
@ appropriate mitigation strategies are developed 
in order to pursue the opportunity whilst 
protecting the Group’s operating and 
commercial principles. 
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

91
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
The Balfour Beatty risk management framework
Ensuring risk management is embedded at each level of the organisation.

GROUP 
RISK
Strategic Risk
OPERATIONAL RISK
Project/Contract/Asset Risk
EXEC RISK STEERING GROUP | ERM TEAM
Risk Process and Tools | Internal Control Effectiveness | Risk Management Operating 
Standard Continuous Improvement | Risk Culture
Escalate
Escalate
Cascade
Cascade
BUSINESS RISK
Strategic Business Units/Business 
Units/Enabling Functions
Governance and oversight
The Board maintains overall responsibility for risk management, 
with oversight of the Group Risk Framework and its application 
across the business. The Board also ultimately determines the 
nature and extent of the risks the Company is willing to take in 
the pursuit of its longer-term strategic objectives. The Directors 
continue to review the overall effectiveness of the risk management 
framework and internal control systems, including the financial, 
operational and compliance processes and controls that are in 
place to prevent the occurrence or limit the impacts of risks. In 
2024, the Group took steps to review and develop the risk 
management and internal control process to improve the 
consistency in how internal controls are documented, and how 
each business reviews effectiveness of internal controls. The Board 
reviews the Group risk profile at half and full year which includes a 
review of Emerging and Principal risks faced by the Group, with 
the Audit and Risk Committee providing independent oversight of 
the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and associated 
internal control environment. 
Group risk management
The Group’s risk management framework allows the Group 
Chief Executive, alongside the Executive Committee (ExCom), to 
monitor the risk profile of the business, supported by the half year 
and full year review processes held with businesses and enabling 
functions, and validated through the Executive Risk Steering 
Group (ERSG). 
Executive sponsorship for risk management is provided by the 
ERSG, which provides valuable input to Group risk themes based 
on profiles within their respective businesses and functions and 
seeks to collectively validate any material changes to the Group 
risk profile. Visibility of core and common themes identified 
through the Operational and Business levels of the Group inform 
half and full year reviews. In 2024, the half year and full year risk 
reporting process integrated specific core risk trends that are being 
tracked at Group level to ensure business unit-specific updates and 
any associated risk movements could be easily monitored, such as 
economic uncertainty, commercial terms and conditions, people, 
health and safety, sustainability, project delivery and work winning.
Business risk management
Balfour Beatty’s business units are distinct and diverse, meaning 
risk profiles differ across operations. Having a consistent approach 
in both UK and US-based businesses is essential to gaining insight 
into business risk and rolling this up to Group level. The inclusion of 
tracking around specific key risk trends into the half year and full 
year risk process served to improve the linkage between Strategic 
Business Unit (SBU) risk profiles and the Group risk profile. The 
use of the IRIS ERM system by all business units ensures 
oversight of operational and business risk profiles to support 
decision making in line with pursuit of strategies. 
Operational risk 
The Gated Business Lifecycle remains a fundamental control in the 
management of Operational risk across Balfour Beatty’s operations. 
The review of project risk profiles undertaken at each stage gate 
review ensures the business understands risk profiles of both 
current projects and future pursuits. Risk reporting has evolved 
further in 2024 to provide the business with insight into operational 
profiles and trends, aiding timely escalation of project risk to 
business leadership, informing business and SBU risk profiles, and 
prompting appropriate management response. The quality of risk 
information continues to be key in ensuring this can be effectively 
analysed, and potential trends identified early on. Realised risk data 
is also fed back through businesses and included into risk libraries 
where appropriate. The drive to improve data quality remains 
continuous, supported by internal and operational audit activities 
and championed by senior leadership manifested through clear 
expectations on ‘management responsibility’ by the Risk function 
and ExCom.
Risk Process
AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE | EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
Governance and Oversight | Risk Policy Setting | Risk Appetite and Tolerance Setting | Risk Culture
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
92
92
Group risk appetite
The Group’s risk appetite remains aligned to the 
Build to Last strategy, ensuring that risk-based 
decision making supports the pursuit of objectives.
The Board, its sub-committees and executive 
management discuss and measure the nature 
and extent of current and Emerging Risks faced 
by the Group in achieving its long-term strategic 
objectives. This requires biannual review of the 
effectiveness of the internal control environment 
within the risk management structure outlined on 
pages 146 to 152. The outcome of this assessment 
represents the Group’s risk appetite and can be 
set out in the context of the Group’s values as 
shown below. Work is ongoing to establish risk 
appetite at SBU level to better inform risks 
requiring escalation to senior management in 
the context of each SBU’s business objectives.
Build to Last strategy
Risk attitude
Appetite
Related principal risks
Lean 
We create 
value for our 
customers and 
drive continuous 
improvement
 
@ Balfour Beatty remains committed to challenging ways of working to improve outcomes 
and become more competitive
 
@ The Group is prepared to accept a level of operational risk in its delivery of cost-effective solutions
 
@ Such risks must not be at the expense of meeting customer requirements
 
@ The Group’s risk appetite for efficiency remains moderate
M
Remains 
moderate
7 9 12
Expert 
Our highly skilled 
colleagues 
and partners 
set us apart
 
@ Balfour Beatty continues to develop its expertise in engineering, computer science, robotics, 
data analytics, electronics and electrical and mechanical engineering to deliver the very best 
solutions to its customers
 
@ This drive for sustained innovation is undertaken with industry experts in managed and safe 
environments to minimise risk
 
@ The Group continues to have a moderate appetite for expert risk
M
Remains 
moderate
2 3 6 7 13
Trusted 
We deliver on 
our promises 
and we do the 
right thing
 
@ Balfour Beatty must deliver on its promises to stakeholders
 
@ Aligning delivery objectives to those of the customer is critical to ensuring successful 
outcomes – the Group strives for Right First Time delivery
 
@ Ensuring integrity is embedded throughout the Group and its supply chain partners is key to 
doing the right thing
 
@ The Group’s appetite for not meeting customer expectations remains low
L
Remains 
low
2 3 4 5 6 
7 8 9 10 11
Safe 
We make 
safety personal
 
@ Conducting business in a safe way and providing a Zero Harm environment for Balfour 
Beatty’s people and stakeholders is paramount
 
@ The Group’s appetite for health and safety risk remains at zero
0
Remains 
zero
1 7
Sustainable
We act 
responsibly 
to protect and 
enhance our 
planet and 
society
 
@ Balfour Beatty is committed to leaving a positive legacy for the society and communities 
it serves
 
@ The Group seeks to minimise its impact on the environment, working with supply chain 
partners, customers and communities to ensure its choices are sustainable, whilst 
delivering customer objectives, and pursuing new initiatives and technologies to achieve this
 
@ The Group’s appetite for risk around sustainability is moderate
M
Remains 
moderate
2 3 7
RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

93
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
The Group remains prudent in ensuring any 
exposure presented through economic uncertainty 
and ongoing political and societal factors are well 
understood and well managed. Reviews of the 
Group risk profile have continued to monitor where 
these drivers manifested within existing Group 
risks, and the half year and full year process undertaken 
with each business area has evolved to track 
movements and drivers associated with specific 
Group risk themes, aligning to Principal Risks.
1   Health and safety
p94
2   Contracting terms and conditions
p95
3   Project delivery
p96
4   Joint ventures
p97
5   
Cybersecurity
p98
6   People and talent
p99
7   Sustaining focus on Build to Last strategy
p100
8   Financial strength
p101
9   Supply chain
p102
10   Code of Ethics compliance
p103
11   Legal and regulatory
p103
12   Legacy pension liabilities
p104
13   Economic uncertainty
p105
Emerging Risks 
The Group requests specific Emerging Risk 
identification by each Strategic Business Unit 
(SBU) and Enabling Function (EF) as part of the 
Group’s biannual half year and full year risk 
submissions. The functionality in IRIS to flag 
Emerging Risks on respective strategic risk 
registers enables greater visibility, allowing SBUs 
and EFs to monitor Emerging Risks alongside 
their existing review of current risks. This in turn 
is used to inform where Emerging Risks are 
relevant at Group level and should be formally 
tracked alongside Group-level risks.
Balfour Beatty considers Emerging Risks in relation 
to their longer-term impact and shorter-term risk 
velocity and examines them in the context of its 
viability statement. The Group has defined 
Emerging Risks as those risks faced by the 
business that:
 
@ are likely to be of significant scale beyond a 
three-year timeframe;
 
@ have the velocity to significantly increase in 
severity within the three-year period; and/or
 
@ are not sufficiently defined or if there is not 
enough information developed to enable an 
informed assessment to be made of their 
impact and whether they pose a threat or an 
opportunity to the Group.
The discussion and review of Emerging Risks 
includes ‘horizon scanning’ activities around 
potential uncertainties that are not sufficiently 
defined or developed to enable an informed 
assessment to be made of their impact on the 
ongoing viability of the Group and whether they 
pose a threat or an opportunity.
Consistent assessment of risk
The Balfour Beatty Group PI Matrix supports a 
consistent assessment of all risks identified in the 
business in terms of their impact across delivery, 
financial, and health, safety and sustainability 
impact categories. This impact is assessed 
alongside the likelihood of occurrence, providing 
an overall rating that allows for the prioritisation 
and comparison of risk and opportunity events. 
This overall rating is assessed as the current risk 
rating, which is based on controls that are in place 
and effective for managing the risk. Response to 
risks is determined based on the current risk 
exposure, the anticipated effect of any additional 
actions to manage the risk and considered in line 
with the Groups risk appetite.
The matrix is calibrated to cater for financial impacts 
across the three tiers of the risk management 
framework: Operational risk, Business risk and 
Group risk, which allows the same matrix to be 
utilised for common assessment whilst providing 
a flexible, tailored approach for risks to be 
measured in the context of project values or 
business financial objectives and catering for 
adjustment when rolled-up to Group level. 
The decision to revise risk assessments and 
associated risk ratings for Group Risks is subject 
to robust review and often, the reduction of an 
overall risk rating will only be made following a 
continued period of certainty whereby movements 
of internal and external factors are less volatile, 
and controls are known to be well-established and 
effective. The Group Internal Control framework 
supports validation of current risk assessments 
– ensuring that controls that are embedded and 
operating effectively are used to inform 
assessment made by risk owners.
Other Group risks
Failure to manage and mitigate climate change 
remains identified as a risk on the Group register. 
The business continues to acknowledge that 
understanding the impact of climate change on 
the organisation and deploying the right strategies 
to mitigate any exposure is key. Efforts to further 
the Groups understanding of the impact of 
climate change on the business is undertaken 
through a specific climate risk reporting 
workstream, outlined on pages 107 to 115.
Delivering sustainability requirements also 
continues to be tracked as a Group risk which 
recognises the varying pace of change anticipated 
across geographies and the need for the Group to 
meet increasing, and potentially onerous, reporting 
requirements and position itself to meet future 
customer demands. There is also significant 
opportunity presented by this as the business 
expands its expertise and capability. Refreshed 
in 2024, the Building New Futures sustainability 
strategy charts a course for how Balfour Beatty 
plans to deliver carbon reduction measures across 
its operations, outlined further in the Sustainability 
section on pages 48 to 67
.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
94
94
DESCRIPTION AND IMPACT
CAUSES
MITIGATION
1   Health and safety
The Group works on and delivers complex and 
potentially hazardous projects which require 
continuous monitoring and management of 
safety risks, and well as ensuring the health 
and wellbeing of its employees and those it 
works with.
What impact it might have
Failure to manage these risks presents the 
potential for significant injury, or impact on health 
and wellbeing of employees, subcontractor staff, 
third parties or members of the public. It also 
presents the threat of potential criminal 
prosecutions, significant fines, debarring from 
contract bidding and reputational damage.
 
FOR MORE INFORMATION PLEASE SEE ‘HEALTH, 
SAFETY AND WELLBEING’ ON PAGES 40 TO 45
Common themes which drive health, safety and 
wellbeing risks include:
 
@ inadequate risk identification/assessment;
 
@ failure to communicate and follow health and 
safety procedures;
 
@ insufficient competence;
 
@ failure to eliminate or mitigate risk through 
design and planning;
 
@ failure of established control measures;
 
@ lack of clear Zero Harm leadership, impacting 
broader safety culture;
 
@ ineffective management and/or oversight of 
subcontractors, JV partners and other third 
parties; and/or
 
@ lack of focus on the wellbeing and mental 
health of staff faced by daily work and 
life pressures.
The Group’s Zero Harm strategy is reviewed annually, with focused priorities 
and business plans as key controls in managing the risks presented in the 
industry and across the Group’s operations.
External certification and internal audits verify systems and business 
compliance, with strategies and associated action plans, which are 
additionally regularly reviewed and monitored by management and external 
accreditation bodies.
Zero Harm by Design training and processes are in place across the business, 
including regular review of lessons learned and introduction of digital rehearsals.
Experienced and competent health and safety professionals provide advice, 
monitor onsite compliance and support continuing strengthening of a Zero 
Harm culture.
The Safety and Sustainability Committee of the Board and business Health 
and Safety executive leadership teams meet regularly through the year to 
capture learning and innovation and promulgate a consistent approach to 
health and safety best practice, with leading KPIs reported and closely monitored.
Training programmes, which also includes behavioural training and mental 
health awareness, are in operation across the business. 
Operational ownership of fatal risks through well-established working groups 
with managing director leadership.
Owner
Safety and Sustainability Committee
Risk movement
–
No movement
Health and safety risk continues to be managed by 
well-established controls and processes throughout 
the Group and within operational DNA (including 
partners) to represent a stable control environment. 
Digital enhancements are serving to provide greater 
control across the business. 2024 figures show a 
continuing downward trend in injury incidence rates 
for the Group.
Multiple contemporaneous failures within this 
environment would be required for the risk to be realised.
RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
Our Principal Risks
Balfour Beatty’s decision making remains centred on a comprehensive and detailed understanding 
of the exposures faced by the organisation, carried out through business-level and Group-level reviews. 
Identifying risks that could impact on the achievement of business and strategic objectives, and 
consistently assessing and responding to these, is essential to balancing risk taken in line with risk 
appetite. The Group risks that link to strategic plans, as well as any Emerging Risks identified for the 
business, are reviewed and, where required, assessed to enable the Board to undertake an assessment 
of the overall profile of exposure faced by the Group. The Board considers whether this represents new, 
increased or decreased threats and the level of response required to manage them. The risk profile 
comprises both interconnected and discrete risks at strategic, business and operational level and 
focuses on understanding the worst-case scenarios that could threaten the Group’s strategy, business 
model and ongoing viability; see pages 24, 8 and 106. The Group’s Principal Risks are described on pages 
94 to 105.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

95
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
DESCRIPTION AND IMPACT
CAUSES
MITIGATION
2   Contracting terms and conditions 
The Group delivers high-profile, complex and 
significant projects that carry specialised 
deliverables combined with multifaceted, and 
occasionally stringent, commercial terms. 
Establishing the right contractual approach 
and delivering customer obligations within 
agreed terms alongside technical complexity 
can pose a risk if not managed correctly. 
Maintaining a balance to protect the interests 
of all parties, including the supply chain, 
whilst maintaining a profitable and sustainable 
order book and delivering stakeholder value 
requires competency, skill and, increasingly, 
greater collaboration with clients. 
What impact it might have
Failure to fully understand or manage complex 
delivery in line with commercial terms across the 
portfolio could potentially result in disputes, 
leading to cost and time to resolve, as well as 
potential losses or reduction in profitability and 
damage to relationships with key customers, 
supply chain or JV partners. 
Failure to effectively engage and collaborate with 
customers and supply chain partners in agreeing 
contract terms could result in choosing not to 
pursue certain works, limiting access to certain 
target markets in the future, impacting on future 
order book and growth targets.
Key causes that could drive this risk include:
 
@ lack of clearly defined bid strategy and 
engagement plan;
 
@ misalignment between Balfour Beatty and 
client approach;
 
@ working with new or unknown customers 
and partners, with no previously 
established relationship;
 
@ entering into new markets or use of new, 
unfamiliar technology; 
 
@ lack of supply chain capacity to accept and 
manage back-to-back terms, resulting in 
increased risk carried by Balfour Beatty;
 
@ failure to engage in an early collaborative 
approach with the customer to fully 
understand requirements;
 
@ clients taking a more risk- averse attitude, 
driven by their own financial or market pressures, 
resulting in a less-balanced approach to 
allocation or sharing of risk; and/or
 
@ lack of early identification of a contracting 
strategy between all parties.
The Group Tender and Investment Committee (GTIC) reviews and challenges 
all proposals in line with minimum commercial expectations and the Circles of 
Risk guidance.
Clear, defined delegated levels of authority are in place for approving all tender 
and infrastructure investment decisions.
Customer adoption of the UK Government Construction Playbook steers an 
approach towards increased collaboration, which results in reduced risk, and 
an increased focus on quality of bid rather than being solely cost driven.
A ‘get left early’ attitude adopted prior to the procurement process enables 
influence over contracting and procurement model. A shift to a ‘two-stage’ 
tender approach supports an early collaborative, solution-based approach 
with customers and minimises risk on both sides – especially in new markets 
or ‘first-of-a-kind’ initiatives.
Ongoing work winning initiatives continue in place across the Group to drive 
increased commercial and customer awareness and further embed an 
understanding of expectations on margins and cost.
The Gated Business Lifecycle review process highlights key commercial 
risks closely aligned to Circles of Risk to ensure adequate challenge and 
qualification of terms, and early mitigation of key exposures.
Monthly business reviews identify early indicators with potential for disputes 
arising on contracts, including across the subcontractor base.
Owner
Group Tender and Investment Committee
Risk movement
–
No movement
No change in risk assessment in 2024, reflecting the 
importance that the business maintains in managing 
this risk as it enters new markets, works with new 
clients and monitors how customers respond to 
continued market pressures. Controls aimed at 
championing a more collaborative approach with 
customers remain crucial in seeking fair terms 
commensurate with risk profiles, particularly with 
new, complex and in some cases, unfamiliar work 
scopes. GTIC and Circles of Risk continue to ensure 
the business doesn’t proceed with unacceptable 
terms, such as accepting process risk.
Controls to challenge and scrutinise decision making 
prevent the Group from bidding for unsustainable 
work, limit potential exposure and lead to a more 
risk-balanced portfolio, with regular reporting of risk 
profiles and associated mitigation strategies 
throughout delivery remaining essential.
Close monitoring of this risk is ongoing as the Group 
works closely with new and existing customers, and 
with established and new supply chain partners.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
96
96
DESCRIPTION AND IMPACT
CAUSES
MITIGATION
3   Project delivery
Failure to deliver projects consistent with 
customer expectations and required 
specifications and/or quality, in line with 
schedule and budget, and to minimise the risk 
of increased costs, delay related damages and 
defect liabilities.
What impact it might have
Failure to manage and/or deliver against customer 
expectations, scope specifications and key 
deliverables to time and budget could result in 
exposures such as design issues, contract 
disputes, liquidated damages, cost overruns and 
failure to achieve anticipated customer savings 
which in turn could reduce the Group’s profitability 
and damage its reputation.
The Group may also be at risk of longer-term 
exposures including litigation and costs to rectify 
defective or unsafe work, particularly given 
increased liabilities under the Building Safety 
Act 2022.
Significant delivery failure on a project could result 
in substantial reputational damage, and potentially, 
debarment under the New Procurement Act 2023. 
 
Failure to implement, maintain and challenge 
operational and commercial controls (as detailed 
within checklists at GBL reviews) could result in:
 
@ lack of comprehensive understanding of 
contract obligations;
 
@ inadequate resource (people, plant and 
materials inc. supply chain) or competency 
verification of resource;
 
@ unrealistic project schedules;
 
@ unrealistic progress assessments and cost to 
complete judgements which could arise due 
to poor training, lack of supervision, or lack 
of accountability;
 
@ overly optimistic claim recovery assumptions;
 
@ incomplete visibility and appreciation of scale 
of commercial judgements; 
 
@ failings in administering the contract terms to 
safeguard or protect future claims, change 
orders and extensions of time (EOTs); 
 
@ inability to meet environmental or 
sustainability commitments;
 
@ poor management, selection and governance 
of subcontractors and supply chain partners; 
and/or
 
@ lack of robust quality assurance processes 
and systems.
Customer intervention and additional pressure 
to complete could also be a driver to this risk.
The GBL process continues to ensure identification and reporting of risks, 
including planning, programme accuracy, cost and cash forecasting and 
resource reviews remain the focus of project governance and management 
oversight.
Early engagement of integrated work winning and project delivery teams 
across the GBL process ensures customer expectations are understood 
and realistic early on.
Deployment and ongoing monitoring of strong commercial management and 
contract administration processes are embedded through the project lifecycle.
Optimal scheduling of key staff and associated competencies within project 
delivery and senior management teams, with ongoing and focused training 
and development.
The site mobilisation hub facilitates early and effective start-up on site.
Drive for Right First Time delivery including digital progressive assurance of 
project delivery championed by UK Quality Leadership team with ExCom 
sponsorship. 
Pre-qualification and competency/capacity verification of supply chain 
partners, and close monitoring of subcontractor and supplier performance 
throughout the project lifecycle.
Professional indemnity cover in place to provide further financial safeguards 
to the business.
Owner
Group management
Risk movement
–
No movement
This management of project delivery risk remains a 
key focus at Group and Business level and continues 
to be managed through the consistent application of 
operational reporting systems and diligent use of 
short interval control processes across all stages of 
project delivery, providing greater oversight for 
management and certainty of operational outcomes. 
Monitoring of how this risk evolves as the business 
enters new markets and works with new technology 
is key, as well as ensuring early collaboration with 
customers in understanding technical requirements 
and development of solutions.
The UK Quality Leadership team serves to champion 
a consistent approach, improving quality awareness 
and driving the organisation’s Right First Time 
‘mantra’ to project delivery, with executive oversight 
and sponsorship. 
Ongoing verification of the effectiveness of controls 
and GBL governance remains key to managing this 
risk together with an enhanced focus on quality 
performance.
RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
Our Principal Risks continued
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

97
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
DESCRIPTION AND IMPACT
CAUSES
MITIGATION
4   Joint ventures
Failure to implement robust controls around 
the selection of joint venture (JV) partners, 
and/or to define a clear governance structure 
to monitor delivery or establish a ‘one team’ 
culture may result in failure to deliver 
expected returns and/or minimise the risk 
of unexpected liabilities.
What impact it might have
Inability to select the right JV partner, aligned to 
Balfour Beatty’s culture and values, could result in a 
mismatch of partner objectives, driving a knock-on 
impact on the effective delivery of contract 
requirements, resulting in a significant impact to 
profitability and reputational damage.
Any potential failure of a JV partner could expose 
the Group to increased resourcing costs and 
ongoing liability, and warranty risks.
Disputes with JV partners could impact the 
Group’s ability to operate successfully and/or 
expand within its chosen markets, as well as 
tie up of management resources.
Failure to align and integrate with the Group’s 
health and safety management expectations and 
culture could present increased potential for injury 
and/or fatality.
The risk could arise from:
 
@ ineffective assessment of JV partners 
including liquidity, capacity and capability;
 
@ failure to ensure ‘fit for purpose’ terms with 
the right JV partner;
 
@ lack of clarity on the delegated levels of 
authority between partners;
 
@ delayed and fettered decision making 
between partners;
 
@ segregation from central management 
systems (financial and operational);
 
@ lack of aligned understanding of contract 
requirements and expectations;
 
@ lack of oversight of JV reporting and 
application of processes implemented across 
the project; and/or
 
@ misalignment of Balfour Beatty and JV partner 
cultures, values and practices.
The Group has broad capability to self-deliver projects but recognises that 
establishing the right partnership can be an opportunity to deliver work.
The GTIC process applies equally to all joint ventures, ensuring approval 
and oversight.
Appointment of an appropriately constituted JV board acts as the main 
governance vehicle for the Group.
The GBL process provides governance over JV partner selection, and 
highlights partner-related risks closely aligned to Circles of Risk including 
those related to capacity, capability, previous experience with the Group 
and liquidity. 
Experienced project directors are appointed to manage JVs and provide an 
ongoing assessment, and proposed mitigation of, operational delivery risk.
Good practice, including the use of joint reporting systems (where 
appropriate), is shared between partners to embed the Group’s expectations 
and culture across JV delivery teams.
Balfour Beatty monitors the performance of its JV partners throughout the 
lifecycle of a project.
Owner
Group Tender and Investment Committee
Risk movement
–
No movement 
Maintaining close oversight of delivery across current 
significant JV partnerships remains a focus. The 
business continues to focus on ensuring strong 
governance controls that underpin decision making 
and early partner selection are in place as it looks to 
enter new market sectors and work with new partners 
and alliances.
Monitoring of health and safety progress of existing 
key and high-profile JVs continues.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
98
98
DESCRIPTION AND IMPACT
CAUSES
MITIGATION
5   Cybersecurity
Failure to protect key Group and employee 
data and other confidential information due to 
a breach of system security and/or disruption 
to delivery caused by system loss.
What impact it might have
 
@ reputational harm (loss of market and 
customer confidence);
 
@ loss of data, resulting in potential fines 
and prosecution;
 
@ loss of intellectual property and competitive 
advantage; and
 
@ operational impact restricting ability to carry 
out business-critical activities (disruption to 
business as usual).

There are several internal and external factors 
that could contribute to the realisation of this 
risk including:
 
@ poor internal governance;
 
@ failure to embed a preventative culture;
 
@ lack of, or inadequate staff training 
and awareness; 
 
@ increased exposure to phishing attacks and 
ransomware due to new and emerging 
techniques to bypass preventative controls, 
with remote working and the emergence of AI 
amplifying the sophistication of attacks;
 
@ failing to meet regulatory requirements;
 
@ operational failure including supply chain 
attacks impacting the businesses ability 
to deliver;
 
@ inconsistent approach to data security with 
joint venture/external partners;
 
@ increased use of cloud services without 
equivalent investment in modern threat 
prevention; and/or
 
@ cyber-attack – the increasing pace to patch or 
mitigate vulnerabilities in the Group’s systems.
The risk is managed via the following controls:
 
@ network and endpoint protection, encryption, patching and data back-up;
 
@ awareness training and internal testing, with mandated annual refresher in 
place for all users; 
 
@ data governance framework regularly reviewed, and supported by policies 
and certifications; 
 
@ incident management feedback mechanism (embeds lessons learnt);
 
@ partner and supplier controls including vendor risk management assessments 
and established relationships with external security authorities;
 
@ information security actively monitoring for security incidents and 
remediating where necessary;
 
@ access to all core systems subject to multi-factor authentication;
 
@ systems are subject to 24/7 monitoring with review of core controls to 
provide additional protection in areas that are potential new attack paths;
 
@ strong focus on supply chain partners to ensure they are resilient to fraud 
and cyber-attacks;
 
@ knowledge sharing initiatives with supply chain partners and wider industry;
 
@ enhancement of internet controls (web proxy); and
 
@ cybersecurity maturity assessment providing assurance and oversight of 
the operation and effectiveness of cyber controls.
Owner
Group management
Risk movement
–
No movement
The sophistication of potential attacks, the role of AI, 
and increasing customer requirements continue to 
present an ever-evolving environment which requires 
constant monitoring. Continuous improvement in the 
control environment is essential to maintain pace with 
the potential risk, including increased training for staff 
to maintain a robust risk-aware culture and reduce the 
likelihood of a major incident. This includes collaborating 
with key clients as well as supply chain partners 
where required. 
RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
Our Principal Risks continued
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

99
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
DESCRIPTION AND IMPACT
CAUSES
MITIGATION
6   People and talent
Attracting and retaining the required level of skilled and 
competent people, including developing and growing expert 
skills and capacity is essential to effectively deliver the 
Group’s current portfolio of work and position the business for 
future growth in target markets. 
What impact it might have
Failure to recruit and retain appropriately skilled people or grow 
in-house talent could harm the Group’s ability to win or successfully 
perform specific contracts, manage project cost increases, grow the 
business and/or meet strategic objectives, including securing future 
order book.
A high level of staff turnover or low employee engagement could 
result in loss of competency and morale, and potentially present 
increased health, safety and wellbeing risk. Not having the right 
capability and capacity can reduce business confidence within the 
market, lose stakeholder confidence and restrict the ability to drive 
business growth or improvements.
 
FOR MORE INFORMATION PLEASE SEE ‘OUR PEOPLE’ ON PAGES 68 TO 73
Failure to effectively mitigate the Group’s 
people risks may arise through:
 
@ overheating of market causing significant 
increase in demand or competition for people, 
specifically in certain sectors and regions;
 
@ overbidding or ineffective resource forecasting 
in line with workload scheduling;
 
@ difficulty in accessing talent pools in remote 
project locations;
 
@ lack of visibility of longer-term pipeline or 
perceived lack of career progression resulting 
in talent leaving the Group or sector;
 
@ inability to recruit, retain and effectively 
deploy strong performers within the business;
 
@ failure to maintain a culture of pride and 
advocacy across the workforce;
 
@ ineffective and/or inadequate investment in 
the development of existing skills and capabilities;
 
@ lack of a diverse workforce; 
 
@ labour supply issues including onerous/ 
changing immigration controls as well as a 
draw for skillsets to geographical areas in 
which the Group does not operate;
 
@ cost of living pressures and other economic 
factors driving increase in attrition and people 
movement; and/or
 
@ pressure from wage inflation and increase in 
competitive offers from other infrastructure 
opportunities – both inside and outside the 
Group’s areas of operation. 
Providing a positive working environment to support the development of 
employees has been central to Build to Last.
Specific controls to mitigate this risk include:
 
@ HR strategy and plan, with associated measurement of KPIs to inform 
decision making against budgets;
 
@ strategic workforce planning protocol to prevent resource conflicts in short 
and longer term; 
 
@ work winning and project delivery alignment to internal and external 
recruitment activities, with early review of people and resourcing needs 
to ensure adequate capability and capacity prior to bidding;
 
@ competency frameworks within core job families identify and support the 
development of key knowledge, skills and expertise;
 
@ internal mobility supports career development and redeployment 
opportunities via Careers portal;
 
@ regular measurement and review of recruitment and retention rates, 
with succession plans identified for core roles and disciplines;
 
@ annual OPR (people and talent reviews), with regular reviews of 
remuneration and incentive arrangements and remuneration package 
benchmarking against peers including participation in industry forums; 
 
@ employee engagement surveys, with appropriate actions to address findings;
 
@ Balfour Beatty Academy established in the UK supports professional and 
personal development;
 
@ training needs analysis competency tools identify capability requirements 
and highlight development gaps to inform investment decision making;
 
@ strong employee communication channels to celebrate individual, 
business and Group-level successes and to increase future pipeline visibility;
 
@ Affinity Networks create a diverse and inclusive working environment; and
 
@ investment in emerging talent through strong graduate, apprenticeship, 
and industrial placement/internship schemes.
Owner
The Board
Risk movement
–
No movement 
Risk rating continues to be held at 
current position as the business 
focuses on workforce planning 
and resourcing for medium-term 
projects in new markets and 
geographical locations, as well 
as positioning for future pursuits. 
Ensuring effective succession 
planning for senior management 
and developing required talent pools 
remains a key focus for business 
unit leadership teams, alongside 
maintaining sight of pipelines.
The results of the employee survey 
conducted in 2024 provided a 
positive metric into organisational 
culture, reflecting a high level of 
employee engagement across 
the Group. 
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
100
100
DESCRIPTION AND IMPACT
CAUSES
MITIGATION
7   Sustaining focus on Build to Last strategy
Failure by the Group to sustain and build upon the strong 
foundation and culture created through its Build to Last 
strategy, and supporting Cultural Framework.
What impact it might have 
Inconsistency in working practices and siloed cultures across the 
business could drive inefficiencies, increased costs and operational 
errors which impact the Group’s ability to deliver on its purpose of 
Building New Futures, and impact on its ability to deliver sustainable 
and managed profitable growth resulting in reputational damage.
Delivering against the Group’s core values of Lean, Expert, Trusted, 
Safe and Sustainable is integral to its ongoing success and purpose.
 
FOR MORE INFORMATION PLEASE SEE ‘OUR STRATEGY: BUILD TO LAST’ ON 
PAGES 24 AND 25
Failure to deliver and/or demonstrate sustained 
focus and momentum could arise from:
 
@ complacency and/or localised adaptations 
within core disciplines or siloed cultures;
 
@ ineffective communication and/or reinforcement 
of messaging through a lack of leadership;
 
@ inadequate resourcing (financial, physical 
assets and people) with the right level of skill 
and competency;
 
@ lack of joined up approach across our 
geographies, markets and business units; 
 
@ new systems and processes being used 
without appropriate controls being in place 
and/or tested; and/or
 
@ new people joining the organisation 
(including in leadership roles).
Ensuring Build to Last continues to drive business success is a strategic 
priority for the Group and is led by the Group Chief Executive.
Controls include:
 
@ continuous measurement and reporting of KPIs aligned to Lean (cash flow 
and profit from operations), Expert (employee engagement), Trusted 
(customer satisfaction), Safe (Zero Harm) and Sustainable (carbon 
emissions) within each business;
 
@ A Cultural Framework, which is embedded in the Group’s systems and 
processes, aligning the UK and US under one unified approach and 
reinforcing expected values and behaviours;
 
@ clear and frequent senior leadership engagement across the businesses 
and functions;
 
@ upskilling, training, and business and development initiatives at key levels 
throughout the business to reinforce Build to Last and the Cultural 
Framework for all employees and in key job families i.e. commercial, 
project management, engineering etc.;
 
@ induction, recognition and PDR approach aligned to Build to Last strategy 
and Cultural Framework;
 
@ Zero Harm provides a consistent approach for the Group on the health and 
safety agenda and delivery against the Safe value;
 
@ Building New Futures sustainability strategy provides a consistent 
approach for the Group on the Sustainability agenda and delivery against 
the Sustainable value; and
 
@ regular programme of communications to reinforce strategic priorities 
across the Group. 
Owner
The Board
Risk movement
–
No movement
The Build to Last strategy and the 
supporting Cultural Framework 
remains critical to the continuing 
success of the business. Ensuring the 
Build to Last strategy and Cultural 
Framework underpin Balfour Beatty’s 
operations will continue to be essential 
to the success of the business.
RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
Our Principal Risks continued
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

101
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
DESCRIPTION AND IMPACT
CAUSES
MITIGATION
8   Financial strength
The Group’s inability to maintain the financial strength 
required to operate its business and deliver its objectives.
What impact it might have
Failure to protect and effectively maintain the required financial 
strength could result in:
 
@ failure to meet financial covenant tests, as set out in financing 
facility agreements, leading to a default event if not remedied 
within a specific grace period;
 
@ failure to pass required tests that allow continued use of the going 
concern basis of accounting in preparing financial statements;
 
@ the Group suffers a negative impact on profitability and loses the 
confidence of its chosen markets and/or shareholders; and/or
 
@ loss of ability to compete for key long-term contracts that are critical 
to ongoing viability of the Group and delivery of longer-term objectives.
Failure to manage financial risks (including 
forecasting material exposures) and the 
financial resources of the Group that underpin 
its ability to:
 
@ meet ongoing liquidity obligations so that it 
remains a going concern; and/or
 
@ meet financial covenants as set out in 
financing facility agreements.
The Group continues to operate with a low level of financial risk as evidenced 
by its robust average net cash position.
The Group operates with a centralised Treasury function, responsible for 
managing key financial risks, cash resources and the availability of liquidity 
and credit capacity.
The Group maintains significant undrawn term committed bank facilities with 
a banking group of high credit quality to underpin the liquidity requirements 
of the Group. 
The Group maintains significant bank and surety bonding facilities to deliver 
trade finance requirements of the Group on an ongoing basis.
The Group operates standardised reporting, forecasting and budgeting 
financial processes. This allows monitoring of the impact of business 
decisions on financial performance over future time horizons.
Owner
The Board
Risk movement
–
No movement
The Group Finance and Treasury 
functions continue to maintain 
well-established controls and 
demonstrate a clear ability to 
manage existing and anticipated risk, 
with a robust liquidity position held 
throughout the year. In 2024, the 
Group successfully extended the 
revolving credit facility (RCF), which 
extends to 2028, while continuing 
to retain its strong average net 
cash position.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
102
102
DESCRIPTION AND IMPACT
CAUSES
MITIGATION
9   Supply chain
Supply chain partners fail to meet the Group’s operational 
expectations and requirements in relation to capacity, 
competency, quality, financial stability, safety, environmental, 
social and ethical values.
What impact it might have
Failure to manage and monitor subcontractors or supplier 
performance could impact on project delivery and may result in the 
Group becoming involved in disputes, being forced to find alternative 
providers or undertaking/ rectifying the work itself. This could result 
in delays, business disruption, customer dissatisfaction, additional 
costs or significant defects owing to lack of expertise or 
competency.
Mistreatment of suppliers, subcontractors and their staff, or poor 
ethical standards within the supply chain, could lead to disputes or 
even legal proceedings and investigations resulting in business 
disruption, losses, fines and penalties, reputational damage and, in 
the worst case, debarment.
Legislation such as the Procurement Act, Criminal Finance Act and 
Economic Crime and Corporate Transparency Act all place greater 
emphasis on Balfour Beatty to have growing levels of visibility of 
sub-tier supply. This could result in greater supply chain disruption.
Lack of capacity, competency, stability or poor 
behaviours within the Group’s supply chain may 
arise through: 
 
@ failure to embed the Group’s expectations and 
values within the procurement process;
 
@ inadequate assessment of supply chain 
partner capabilities, capacity and process 
(including liquidity, quality, safety, ethics, 
material management and governance over 
compliance with labour laws);
 
@ lack of supplier resilience arising from rising 
market pressures (e.g. global energy prices, 
inflation, shipping delays, natural disaster, 
global trade uncertainty, ongoing political 
instability, etc);
 
@ failure to accurately assess project resource 
requirements and key deliverables; 
 
@ lack of adequate oversight, supervision or 
management during delivery; and/or
 
@ unethical treatment (and associated lack of 
adequate oversight) of the downstream 
supply chain.
The Group continues to develop long-term relationships with key supply 
chain partners, working closely to understand their operations and 
dependencies. This includes relationship mapping with strategic suppliers 
and lessons learnt from previous projects together with briefing on order 
book requirements.
The risk management framework and the GBL process allows for early 
(pre-award) and ongoing (delivery) assessment of the appropriateness of resource 
allocation and dependencies and development of procurement strategies.
Pre-qualification accreditation in place for core suppliers (validated in Gates 
1–3), with oversight of supplier metrics and overall ‘health’.
Contingency plans address potential subcontractor failure, including 
replacement supplier list.
Centralised systems track subcontractor assessment in relation to capacity, 
compliance, performance and financial health, with market trends and 
insights closely monitored and distributed to relevant businesses.
The Group obtains project retentions, bonds and/or letters of credit from 
subcontractors, where appropriate, to mitigate the impact of any insolvency.
Group-wide Code of Ethics cascaded to supply chain, with targeted training 
programmes and related policies and procedures in place.
Detailed assessment process across supply chain following any major 
natural disaster/ political incident to identify any disruption or discontinuation 
of supply.
Owner
Group management
Risk movement
–
No movement
Prolonged economic uncertainty and 
historic volatility seen in the market, 
driven by inflation and rising energy 
prices, have been key drivers to this 
risk. The business however remains 
vigilant in maintaining subcontractor 
and supplier health oversight. 
Additional controls that monitor 
key risk indicators and track core 
commodities is essential in managing 
the risk. Ongoing monitoring of any 
potential impacts from ongoing 
political instability and global trade 
uncertainty remain in place. 
Our Principal Risks continued
RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

103
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
DESCRIPTION AND IMPACT
CAUSES
MITIGATION
10   Code of Ethics compliance
Failure to comply with the Code of Ethics across the Group 
including employees, joint venture partners, and within the 
supply chain.
What impact it might have
Failure to comply with the Code of Ethics and Balfour Beatty values 
could leave the Group exposed to:
 
@ instances of bribery and corruption;
 
@ fraud, deception, false claims or false accounting;
 
@ unfair competition practices;
 
@ human rights abuses, such as child and other labour standards 
generally, illegal workers, human trafficking and modern slavery;
 
@ unethical treatment of and by the supply chain; 
 
@ potential impact to staff morale and wellbeing; and/or 
 
@ potential health and safety impact.
Any of these failures could result in legal investigations or disputes, 
resulting in business disruption, losses, fines and penalties, 
reputational damage and even debarment.
 
FOR MORE INFORMATION PLEASE SEE ‘ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE’ ON PAGE 46
Failure to comply with the Code of Ethics and 
Balfour Beatty values could arise from:
 
@ failure to adopt a compliance risk approach;
 
@ failure to establish appropriate corporate 
culture across the different businesses and 
geographies in which the Group operates;
 
@ failure to embed the Company’s values and 
behaviours across joint ventures and 
throughout supply chain partners;
 
@ lack of an effective training programme to 
reach all layers of personnel across the business; 
 
@ failure to have a robust testing and compliance 
monitoring programme in place;
 
@ ethics and values being compromised as a 
result of commercial pressures;
 
@ failure to ensure awareness of whistleblowing 
processes across the organisation and/or to 
engender a safe ‘Speak Up’ working culture; 
and/or
 
@ deliberate or reckless non-compliance.
Code of Ethics and associated training programme deployed Group-wide 
with specific behaviours training deployed to targeted audiences. Related 
policies, procedures and training refreshed as appropriate – with the initial 
roll out of Right to Respect training in the UK nearing completion.
Ethics and compliance updates provided to the Audit and Risk Committee 
biannually. Each Business Unit, supported by the Ethics and Compliance 
function, is responsible for embedding the Code of Ethics and the 
Company’s values and behaviours within its operations.
The Group has a range of operational controls (commercial, including 
procurement, due diligence and risk assessment) that are designed to 
identify and manage risks internally and with third parties. In 2024, a Fraud 
Working Group was set up to ensure readiness for the coming into force of 
the Economic Corporate Crime and Transparency Act 2023.
An independent third-party whistleblowing helpline is in place and actively 
promoted. All in-scope complaints are independently investigated by the 
Internal Audit and Compliance teams and appropriate action is taken, 
where necessary.
Balfour Beatty works with a limited number of agents, all of whom are, 
in addition to the Group’s due diligence and approval process, subject to 
specific contractual clauses, policies and agreements. 
Centralised systems to track and permit enhanced supplier assessment in 
relation to capacity, compliance and performance providing insight into 
supplier internal operating processes, governance and values.
Owner
The Board
Risk movement
–
No movement
The Code of Ethics programme 
continues to be promoted and 
embedded across the Group. In 
the UK the initial roll out of Right to 
Respect training is nearing completion. 
Controls deployed through both 
internal and external systems allow 
oversight of compliance with the 
Code of Ethics and enable the 
business to monitor and manage 
any potential breaches.
11   Legal and regulatory
The Group does not effectively respond to any change in 
relevant legal, tax and regulatory requirements in a timely 
manner or does not fully understand the implications of 
certain regulatory changes resulting in a potential breach or 
lack of business readiness.
What impact it might have
The Group could face legal proceedings, investigations or disputes 
resulting in business disruption, losses, fines and penalties, 
reputational damage and debarment.
Such action could also impact the valuation of assets within the 
affected territory as well as have an impact on shareholder confidence.
Failure to recognise or adapt to potential impacts 
arising from changes in applicable laws affecting 
the Group’s businesses may result from:
 
@ lack of awareness of any changes in laws or 
regulations made across the geographies and 
jurisdictions within which the Group operates;
 
@ ineffective communication of the requirements 
across relevant business units; and/or
 
@ entering into new markets and/ or sectors 
with limited expertise and due diligence.
The Group actively monitors and responds to tax, legal and regulatory 
developments and requirements in the territories in which it operates, with 
dedicated legal resource assigned to specific business areas.
Changes in the law and the requirements arising from them are clearly 
cascaded to all affected businesses.
Local legal and regulatory frameworks are considered as part of any decision 
to conduct business in a new territory, as well as addressed as part of the 
Circles of Risk.
Appropriate and responsive policies, procedures, training and risk 
management processes are in place throughout the business.
Engagement of third-party expertise where required on specific or localised 
legislation and policy.
Owner
The Board
Risk movement
–
No movement
Unforeseen exposure to legal and 
regulatory change is considered 
extremely unlikely. Whilst the Group 
moves to explore new market 
sectors, the controls embedded 
across the Group are considered to 
remain effective in managing this risk.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
104
104
DESCRIPTION AND IMPACT
CAUSES
MITIGATION
12   Legacy pension liabilities
The Group is exposed to and must therefore effectively 
monitor and manage significant defined benefit pension risks. 
What impact it might have
Failure to manage these risks adequately could lead to the Group 
being exposed to significant additional liabilities due to increased 
pension deficits.
This has the potential to affect the longer-term viability of the Group 
as well as incur reputational harm.
The Group is unable to guarantee that the 
trustees of the pension funds react effectively to 
or manage:
 
@ changes in interest rates or outlook for inflation;
 
@ an increase in life expectancies;
 
@ regulatory intervention or legislative change;
 
@ prudent funding assumptions; and/or
 
@ investment performance of the funds’ assets.
The Group continues to constructively and regularly engage with the 
trustees of the pension funds to ensure that they are taking appropriate 
advice and the funds’ assets and liabilities are being managed appropriately. 
This includes quarterly performance reporting and investment committee 
meetings in which the Company is represented.
The funding and investment arrangements of the pension funds are subject 
to an in-depth triennial valuation and funding review with regular monitoring 
in years between.
The Group’s two main UK funds have hedged in excess of 80% of their 
exposure to interest rate and inflation movements and the largest of the UK 
funds has hedged around 40% of its exposure to an increase in life expectancies.
Following completion of the 31 March 2022 triennial funding review of the 
main UK fund in May 2023, a substantial amount of de-risking was agreed 
with the trustees and the majority of this was implemented by the end of 
2023, with some additional de-risking carried out in the first half of 2024.
Owner
The Board
Risk movement
–
No movement 
No change in risk. The trade-off 
between risk and cost continues to 
be subject to regular review and has 
been scrutinised fully as part of the 
2022 actuarial valuations of the 
Group’s two main UK funds. Asset 
de-risking continued in 2024. 
Ongoing monitoring of this risk 
continues, with the next triennial 
funding reviews planned for 2025.
Our Principal Risks continued
RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

105
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
DESCRIPTION AND IMPACT
CAUSES
MITIGATION
13   Economic uncertainty
The effects of national and international market trends 
including political, societal or regulatory change, may cause 
customers to re-evaluate existing or future infrastructure 
expenditure and the procurement of services. It may also lead 
to changes in the price and availability of labour, products and 
services and impact on Group operating models.
What impact it might have 
Any significant delay or reduction in the level of customer or local 
authority spending or investment plans could adversely impact the 
Group’s strategy and order book, reduce revenue or profitability in 
the near or medium term, and negatively impact the longer-term 
viability of the Group.
Restrictions on the availability of skilled labour and competitively 
priced materials could lead to increased costs, reduced margins, and 
hence potentially a devaluation of the business.
Financial failure of a customer, including any government or public 
sector body, as well as a key supply chain or joint venture partner 
could result in increased financial exposure to counterparty risk.
Potentially negative impacts could be related to 
the effects of:
 
@ customers postponing, reducing or changing 
expenditure plans including any delays 
associated with funding or planning 
constraints or to meet ‘greener’ solutions;
 
@ impact of inflation arising from a multitude of 
factors including rising global costs of energy, 
strained supply chains, global trade 
uncertainty and, rising demand and residual 
impacts still being felt from the UK’s exit from 
the EU;
 
@ pressure on public finances caused by 
inflationary pressures and strained public 
finances more generally;
 
@ increased competition e.g. in the UK from 
foreign investors acquiring competitors;
 
@ political change or uncertainty;
 
@ recessionary pressures; and/or
 
@ increased supply chain risks (e.g. solvency, 
people and materials).
The Group primarily operates across three geographies (UK, US and Hong 
Kong) and three sectors (Construction Services, Support Services and 
Infrastructure Investments). This balanced portfolio of projects provides 
resilience and stability as the Group is less exposed to a downturn in a single 
geography or sector.
The Group continues to actively monitor market trends and potential impacts 
and is involved in government affairs activity to anticipate future direction of 
government spend and collaborate with partners where possible.
The financial solvency and strength of counterparties and major supply chain 
partners form part of key considerations before contracts are signed and 
assessments are updated and reviewed whenever possible during the 
project lifecycle. The business also seeks to ensure that it is not overly reliant 
on any one counterparty, whether customer, joint venture partner or supply 
chain partner.
The annual review of market forecasts continues to remain a core part of the 
Group’s Budget and Plan processes, and a focus on medium-term market 
outlook is considered and presented by each Strategic Business Unit.
Owner
The Board
Risk movement
–
No movement
Economic uncertainty has continued 
to present headwinds for the business, 
driven by interest rates remaining 
higher for longer and the residual 
impact of inflation, presenting 
ongoing financial constraints on both 
public and private finances. In 2024, 
these factors were against the 
backdrop of elections and subsequent 
administration change within both 
the UK and US. The business however 
continues to retain a strong order 
book and has seen the award of 
major projects in 2024. The Group 
continues to closely monitor 
economic drivers, including any 
impact arising from global trade 
uncertainty and remains cognisant of 
potential uncertainties presented by 
ongoing conflicts and international 
political unrest.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
106
106
VIABILITY STATEMENT
In accordance with the requirements of the Code, 
the Directors have assessed the Group’s 
long-term prospects and its viability over a 
three-year period to 31 December 2027
.
Assessing the Group’s 
long‑term prospects
The Group operates primarily in the UK, US and 
Hong Kong, specialising in multiple facets of the 
construction and services industry. The Group also 
maintains an Investments portfolio which provides 
a strong underpin to the Group’s balance sheet.
The Group has many elements necessary 
for future business success – expertise in 
technology and innovation, strong customer 
relationships and a talented workforce. The Group 
seeks to build on these strong foundations with 
continued investment in technological advances, 
not only to ensure that projects are delivered on 
time and as efficiently as possible whilst maintaining 
the utmost focus on safety, but also to remain 
market leaders in the way construction is conducted 
and to push the boundaries of innovation in line 
with achieving industry-leading margins.
Assessing the Group’s viability
The Directors have assessed the Group’s viability 
over a three-year period and consider this to be 
appropriate because this is the period aligned to 
the current order book and for which there is a 
good visibility of the pipeline of potential new 
projects. This period also allows greater certainty 
over the forecasting assumptions used in labour 
and material pricing, skills and availability. There 
is inherently limited visibility of contract bidding 
opportunities beyond the three-year period, and 
the accuracy of any forecasting exercise is also 
impeded by uncertainties around the costs 
involved in delivering contracts. Consequently, 
the Group performs its medium-term planning 
over three years.
The Directors and the Executive Risk Steering 
Group continue to monitor the principal risks 
facing the Group, including those that would 
threaten the execution of its strategy, its business 
model, future performance, solvency and liquidity. 
As part of assessing the Group’s future viability, 
the Directors have considered these principal 
risks and the mitigations available to the Group. 
These principal risks and the consequent impact 
these might have on the Group as well as 
mitigations that are in place are detailed on 
pages 94 to 105.
In their assessment of the Group’s viability, the 
Directors have also considered the need to be 
successful in focusing on the Group’s values of 
Lean, Expert, Trusted, Safe and Sustainable 
detailed on pages 24 and 25. The Group’s progress 
in relation to Build to Last for continuous improvement 
remains critical to future success, although 
success is also dependent on the Group’s ability 
to selectively win new contracts which could 
be partly impacted by political changes.
At 31 December 2024, the Group’s only debt, 
other than non-recourse borrowings ring-fenced 
within certain concession companies, comprised 
$208 million US private placement (USPP) notes. 
The Group’s £450 million committed 
sustainability linked bank facility remained 
undrawn at 31 December 2024 and is fully 
available to the Group until June 2028. The 
Group’s £30 million bilateral committed facility 
also remained undrawn at 31 December and 
remains fully available to the Group until 
December 2027
. 
The Group’s projections indicate that the 
headroom provided by the Group’s strong liquidity 
position, including its net cash position and the 
debt facilities currently in place, is adequate to 
support the Group over the next three years.
The Group’s projections have been stress-tested 
against key sensitivities which could materialise 
as a result of crystallisation of one or a combination 
of the Group’s principal risks with the aim of 
stress-testing the Group’s future viability against 
severe but plausible scenarios. These scenarios 
include:
 
@ failure to manage effectively any adverse 
economic impact;
 
@ an operating event that damages the Group’s 
reputation and results in significant penalty; and
 
@ failure to maintain progress made in relation 
to Build to Last.
The above scenarios result in: a reduction in 
revenue; a reduction in margin; an increase in 
operating costs; a slowdown in the Group’s 
investments asset disposal programme; and/or 
negative changes to working capital.
The Directors also assessed a ‘perfect storm’ 
scenario by combining multiple scenarios and 
modelling the resulting downside to stress-test 
the Group’s viability if these cash flows were to 
immediately and simultaneously come under 
severe threat. This scenario is aimed to test the 
viability of the Group if it was to experience a 
catastrophic failure and to allow the Directors 
to assess the mitigations available to avoid this.
In assessing the Group’s viability under 
these severe but plausible scenarios (including in 
the instance of a ‘perfect storm’), the Directors 
have also considered the Group’s projected cash 
position (which excludes cash that is not immediately 
available to the Group), bank facilities and their 
maturity profile and covenants, the borrowing 
powers allowed under the Company’s Articles of 
Association and the fact that the Group’s PPP 
investments comprise reasonably realisable 
securities which could be sold to meet funding 
requirements if necessary.
It is unlikely, but not impossible, that the crystallisation 
of a single risk would test the future viability of 
the Group. However, it is possible to construct 
scenarios where either multiple occurrences of 
the same risk, or single occurrences of different 
principal risks, could put pressure on the Group’s 
ability to meet its financial covenants. The Directors 
have considered the strength of the mitigations 
available and whether these are sufficient to avoid 
a catastrophic outcome to the Group’s viability 
and believe that there are sufficient mitigations 
immediately available to minimise this risk.
Based on the assessment undertaken to stress-test 
the Group’s viability against severe but plausible 
scenarios, and taking into account the strength of 
mitigations that are immediately available to the 
Group, the Directors have concluded that there 
is a reasonable expectation that the Group will 
be able to continue in operation and meet its 
liabilities as they fall due over the three-year 
period to 31 December 2027
.
Our 2024 Strategic report, from pages 1 to 115, 
was approved by the Board on 11 March 2025.
Philip Harrison
Chief Financial Officer 
11 March 2025
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

107
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
CLIMATE CHANGE AND TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES (TCFD)
Climate change has been identified as one of 
six focus areas most critical to business success 
within the Balfour Beatty Building New Futures 
sustainability strategy, see page 49. This reflects the 
importance that the Group places on addressing the 
climate crisis, and the role the construction and 
infrastructure sector stands to play to tackle this 
global challenge. 
The efforts made to date to understand the effects 
of climate change on the business have focused on 
the identification of climate-related risks and 
opportunities, and an initial assessment of impact or 
potential outcomes to the business. Where possible, 
consideration has also been given to business 
response, in an effort to reflect how the Group both 
adapts to, and mitigates risk, and promotes 
opportunity through its business strategy. 
The Group’s Climate-risk Working Group (formerly 
TCFD Working Group), established in 2021, 
continues to provide a structured approach for 
how the Group considers the impacts of climate 
change and what this means to the organisation. 
The Working Group supports the business in 
considering the deepening effects of the climate 
crisis and integrates the identification of 
climate‑related risk and opportunity into existing 
business risk reviews. The key activities Balfour 
Beatty has undertaken to progress this agenda are 
summarised in a timeline outlined on page 109.
The diverse nature of the Group’s operational 
activities continues to present a challenge for the 
development of robust and replicable methodologies 
that can be applied business-wide to accurately 
quantify the financial impact of climate-related risks 
and opportunities at a Group-wide level. 
During 2024, the Group’s focus areas were to:
 
@ incorporate any new or updated knowledge 
obtained through the 2023 workstream back 
into the climate-risk and opportunity master list;
 
@ revalidate and prioritise the most relevant 
climate-related risks and opportunities for 
the business by reapplying the Vulnerability 
Advantage (VA) assessment against the 
‘long list’ of climate-related risks and 
opportunities; and 
 
@ undertake a detailed analysis on the three 
highest rated risks and opportunities identified 
for the business.
Climate-related risk 
and opportunity
Evolving the organisation’s understanding of the 
impacts of climate change.
Detailed analysis of these events is intended to expand insight into the organisation-wide impacts 
of climate-related risks and opportunities and focus on developing methodologies that will enable 
the Group to explore quantification of the nearer-term events that carry a greater level of likelihood.
Pillar
TCFD recommendation
Section name
Page
Governance
a) Board oversight
Division of responsibilities
p132
b) Management role
Audit risk and internal control
p146
 
Sustainability
p48
Strategy
a) Risks and opportunities
Division of responsibilities
p132
b) Impact on organisation
Audit risk and internal control
p146
c) Resilience of strategy
Sustainability
p48
Risk 
management
a) 
Risk identification and 
assessment process
Risk management
p89
b) Risk management process
c) 
Integration into overall risk 
management
Metrics and 
targets
a) Climate-related metrics
Sustainability
p48
b) 
Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG 
emissions
c) Climate-related targets
Compliance statement:
Balfour Beatty continues to set out its climate-related risk and opportunity disclosures aligned 
with the 11 core elements of the TCFD guidance using the pillars of governance, strategy, risk 
management, and metrics and targets. In doing so, it has considered Section C of the 2021 TCFD 
Annex entitled Guidance for All Sectors and Section E of the TCFD Annex entitled Supplemental 
Guidance for Non-Financial Groups. The Group remains compliant with Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) listing rule UKLR 6.6.6(8)R by applying the TCFD guidance; assessment of the climate-related 
impacts on the Group undertaken to date are largely qualitative and are yet to be fully integrated 
into the longer-term financial planning processes for the business. Development of methodologies 
to determine quantitative impacts has progressed for 2024, however, the Group remains consistent 
in only disclosing qualitative impacts. The Group’s operational complexity continues to present a 
challenge for quantification considering the range of uncertainty in projections on the impacts of 
climate-related risks and opportunities. The table below outlines where elements of the TCFD 
disclosure requirements are addressed within the report. 
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
108
108
CLIMATE CHANGE AND TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES (TCFD) CONTINUED
Reporting framework horizon
Balfour Beatty awaits formal adoption into UK 
reporting rules for listed companies, the International 
Sustainability Standards Board (ISSB)’s first two 
standards, IFRS S1 and IFRS S2, which fully 
incorporate the TCFD’s recommendations. In 2024 
a gap analysis was undertaken on these standards 
to generate a roadmap integrating these into future 
reporting plans. 
Governance 
Balfour Beatty’s governance structure and 
organisation hierarchy underpin all Group activities 
and ensure that the business is managed and 
operated effectively (see page 132). This structure 
enables the Board, its sub-committees and senior 
management to review risk profiles at operational 
and business level that may include climate‑related 
risks and opportunities that are considered 
alongside other potential exposures. 
Board oversight 
The Board is responsible for setting the Cultural 
Framework of the business including its purpose, 
Build to Last strategy, values and behaviours. 
Together with its sub-committees, the Board 
provides leadership and oversight of the system 
of risk management which includes ensuring 
climate-related factors are being considered as 
part of identification of risk for the overall business.
The Safety and Sustainability Committee (SSC) 
reviews the Group’s sustainability strategy, 
Building New Futures, and monitors progress on 
the defined six focus areas. The Group Chief 
Executive and three non-executive Directors are 
members of the SSC. The Group Chief Executive 
has overall responsibility for climate-related risks 
and issues as well as setting Balfour Beatty’s 
sustainability policy and overseeing how 
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) 
matters are managed.
The SSC agenda is separated into two specific 
areas of focus: (i) health and safety; and (ii) 
sustainability, allowing for more time and 
emphasis on climate-related matters. 
Both the Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial 
Officer have ESG-related targets included as part 
of their strategic business and personal objectives. 
Examples include a measurable improvement in 
UK social value annually from the previous year; 
and a measurable improvement in both the quality 
of carbon reporting and actual performance 
against validated Science Based Targets (SBTi).
The Audit and Risk Committee supports the Board 
in its oversight of all Group risks, which continues 
to reflect two Group risks, mitigating and adapting 
to climate change, and delivering sustainability 
commitments. The Board, through the Audit and 
Risk Committee, is apprised of the climate-related 
risks and opportunities on an annual basis, alongside 
an overview of the climate-related risk workstream 
carried out throughout the year and an annual 
disclosure summary.
Further information related to all Board meetings 
held and attended can be found in the Division of 
responsibilities section on page 132.
Management role
The Executive Committee’s (ExCom) responsibilities 
include setting ambitions and targets in relation 
to climate-related matters under the Building New 
Futures sustainability strategy and supporting 
businesses in establishing and implementing 
Bridging the Gap sustainability action plans. ExCom 
members are also responsible for monitoring any 
climate-related risks and opportunities identified 
as relevant to their respective businesses or functions, 
alongside other operational and strategic risks. 
Time horizons
Short term (0–3 years)
Medium term (3–10 years)
Long term (10–30 years)
Balfour Beatty’s current operations 
and asset investments as well as 
near-term growth strategy.
Ongoing projects and contracts 
as well as growth strategy and 
asset investment decisions 
driven by government policy, 
infrastructure needs and 
market conditions.
Factors that could impact Balfour 
Beatty’s business plans and 
longer-term strategy and 
business resilience. 
The Group Sustainability function is responsible 
for understanding material sustainability considerations, 
indicating related targets and ambitions, and enabling 
the development of operational action plans. 
The ExCom has overall responsibility for agreeing 
the Group’s sustainability ambitions and targets. 
Sustainability directors assigned across the Group 
(supported by individual business sustainability 
leads and project-based teams) are responsible 
for maintaining bespoke Bridging the Gap 
sustainability action plans aligned to the Group’s 
Building New Futures sustainability strategy. 
The senior leadership of each business is 
responsible for agreeing its Bridging the Gap 
action plan and ensuring it is delivered and 
adequately resourced. These plans detail how 
projects should deliver sustainability at a local 
level aligning to the Building New Futures six 
focus areas. Risks and opportunities (including 
where defined as Emerging Risks) are also 
identified and tracked on business risk registers 
where relevant. 
Internal audit teams review the maturity of 
Strategic Business Unit Bridging the Gap plans 
against the Group’s sustainability strategy. This 
includes checking that plans are tracked and 
updated by the business.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC LLP) is engaged 
by Balfour Beatty to provide limited assurance 
over the reporting of selected sustainability data 
including the Group’s Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse 
gas emissions, emissions intensity and social value. 
The Climate-Risk Working Group, co-led by the 
Group Risk and Audit Director and Director of 
Sustainability, includes representation from 
Finance, Risk, and Sustainability functions, and 
draws on functional support and expertise from 
the wider business. It engages with business and 
functional management across Balfour Beatty, 
ensuring climate-related risks and opportunities 
are adequately identified and incorporated into 
the Group’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) 
system. The Working Group oversees the 
implementation of climate-related risk 
management processes and reporting. 
The key objectives of the Working Group are to 
grow the Group’s understanding of climate-related 
risk and opportunity and align these efforts to 
evolving disclosure requirements, by: 
 
@ building awareness of climate-related risks 
and opportunities that could impact the Group; 
 
@ identifying, analysing and disclosing high-priority 
or potentially material climate-related risks 
and opportunities;
 
@ delivering ongoing review of climate-related 
risks and considerations and supporting how 
these are integrated into risk management 
processes; and
 
@ communicating the outputs and implications 
of these reviews to key stakeholders within 
the business.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

109
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
2021
2022
2023
2024
Work stream 
summary
Establishment of 
the Working Group 
and integration into 
ERM framework
Vulnerability/ Advantage 
(VA) assessment and top 
10 risks defined
Strategic Business Unit 
(SBU)-level impact and 
applicability assessments
Revalidation and 
prioritisation of the most 
relevant climate-related 
risks and opportunities 
for the business
Training and 
upskilling
Delivered climate awareness session 
to the Board
Delivered carbon literacy training 
to ExCom
Delivered TCFD training session to the 
finance community, with SBU finance 
directors identified as TCFD Champions 
for each SBU
Upskilled a diverse stakeholder group through 
engagement in a half-day workshop to support 
revalidation of the VA assessment
Climate scenario 
setting
Determined climate scenarios as 2°C 
and 4°C for the business and 
commenced scenario analysis 
Revised climate scenarios to 
<2°C (Low Carbon) and ~2.7°C 
(Limited Action)
Maintained climate scenarios as these are aligned to latest climate science
Identification and 
assessment of 
climate risk and 
opportunities 
 
@
Captured physical and transition 
risks split across both scenarios 
informed by data, analysis, 
interpretation, and forecasts – 
establishing a ‘long-list’ master 
climate register
 
@
Facilitation of workshops with 
business representation to identify 
additional relevant events and 
prioritise – split across three 
geographical locations 
 
@
Consolidated workshop output 
and high-level qualitative analysis 
of prioritised risks and 
opportunities and ranked risks and 
opportunities over the short, 
medium and longer term
Development of VA to evaluate and 
prioritise risks from 2021 and applied 
the VA assessment to determine top 
10 highest rated key climate-related 
risks and opportunities to take forward 
for further analysis
 
@
SBU surveys conducted to 
understand applicability and relevance 
of top 10 risk and opportunity 
events in the context of specific 
business plans an objectives
 
@
Facilitation of individual workshops 
for each SBU to explore the relevant 
events in the context of their 
specific business plans and 
objectives – and understand 
impacts and planned response
 
@
Confirmed existing list of climate-related 
risks and opportunities defined to ensure 
relevancy to the Group
 
@
Validation/identification of highest rated 
climate-related risks and opportunities 
for the Group. Agreed a single 
consequence and likelihood rating 
(consequence based on pre-population 
of the sensitive, exposure and adaptive 
ratings already being assigned)
 
@
Identification of the highest rated risk 
and opportunities to take forward for 
more detailed analysis and development 
of quantification methodologies
Detailed analysis
 
@
Identification of 500 site and asset 
locations for physical data 
modelling out to 2100, over both 
climate scenarios to highlight 
exposure to climate perils
 
@
Early development of financial 
methodologies for top 10 risks and 
opportunities allowing for the 
identification of gaps in consistent 
and comparable internal data
 
@
Analysed workshop and survey 
findings to identify common insights 
and validate risks and opportunities 
as most relevant to business 
operations
 
@
Collated information to present back 
to SBUs for consideration and 
incorporation into SBU risk profiles 
(including as emerging risks) where 
required, mitigation actions 
integrated into Bridging the Gap 
plans as part of strategic delivery
 
@
Based on the revised VA assessment 
one opportunity and two risks were 
carried forward for more focused 
analysis 
 
@
Development of draft quantification 
methodologies for the following 
three events:
 
–
Increase in demand for renewable and 
low-carbon energy generation, 
storage, transmission and distribution 
increases awarded contracts
 
–
Carbon pricing increases prices of 
energy and raw materials
 
–
Transitioning of owned plant, fleet, 
and equipment to lower-carbon options
Detail outlined on pages 113 to 115.
Strategy
The Build to Last strategy is fundamental to how 
the organisation shapes a market-leading Balfour 
Beatty for the next 100 years. Build to Last is a 
platform for sustainable growth and productivity 
and is well placed to enable Balfour Beatty to 
develop resilience against the impacts associated 
with climate change over the short, medium and 
long term. 
‘Sustainable’ is identified as one of the five values 
of the Build to Last strategy (see page 25). The 
Building New Futures sustainability strategy sets 
out the Group’s commitment to mitigate and 
adapt to climate change; as signatories of the 
business ambition to 1.5˚C with SBTi validated net 
zero target of 2050 for Scopes 1, 2 and 3 and a 
near-term 42% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions. The roadmap to achieve these reductions 
is implemented through Bridging the Gap sustainability 
action plans in 2024 which monitors progress 
against the Building New Futures strategy targets. 
Balfour Beatty’s diverse operating portfolio and 
geographical spread mean that the likelihood of 
a number of climate-related risks occurring at the 
same time is low and they are unlikely to impact 
the Group’s short-term financial viability or ability 
to operate in a business-as-usual state. 
The nature of the Group’s business model at 
present continues to provide an element of 
protection from negative financial risk where 
contractual mechanisms are in place. This will 
continue to evolve in maturity in line with the 
developing climate agenda as customers embed 
and enhance more climate-focused procurement 
evaluation criteria and commercial 
contractual clauses. 
The Group considers climate-related risks and 
opportunities across different time horizons, 
defined as the short, medium, and long term as 
defined on page 108. 
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
110
110
CLIMATE CHANGE AND TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES (TCFD) CONTINUED
Strategy continued
The Group deemed the retention of these time 
horizons as the most appropriate due to the 
nature of the construction sector’s project 
lifecycles and longevity of ongoing work.
Setting climate scenarios 
The Group has maintained the two scenarios 
identified in the initial disclosure year, as they have 
been determined by the Working Group as still the 
most relevant and appropriate scenarios aligned 
with climate science and the realities of the pace 
of sectoral decarbonisation, labelled Low Carbon, 
and Limited Action. ‘Limited Action’ was defined 
as more appropriate as the term ‘business as 
usual’ was not reflective of the Group’s commitment 
to mitigating and adapting to climate change. 
Under the Limited Action scenario, it is anticipated 
that the global mean temperature will increase by 
approximately 2.7°C, a mix of fossil fuels and 
renewables will be adopted as energy sources, 
carbon pricing will remain low, and legislation 
will be of a commensurate level of ambition in 
comparison to the present, resulting in a medium 
emissions future. 
For physical scenarios, the IPCC AR6 SSP 2–4.5 
Middle of the Road (Limited Action) and SSP1–2.6 
Sustainable (Low Carbon) projections were utilised. 
For transition scenarios, the IEA World Energy 
Outlook 2021 Stated Policies Scenario (Limited 
Action) and Sustainable Development Scenario 
(Low Carbon) were utilised.
Impact and response to 
climate‑related events 
As highlighted previously, the ability to accurately 
quantify the financial impacts from climate change 
to the business presents a challenge. Balfour 
Beatty’s operations are diverse, undertaking very 
different work activities across a broad client 
portfolio (both public and private), often under 
differing contractual terms and profit margins 
across distinct core geographies.
The approach adopted in 2023 to review the 
impacts of climate change at an SBU level 
provided better insight into potential outcomes 
for the business. By understanding the impact of 
each risk and opportunity event in the context of 
specific business plans and growth strategies, 
the methodologies developed to financially assess 
impacts could be informed by more accurate, 
granular data on a business-by-business basis, 
making it more relevant to that area of operation. 
It also supported insight into the proposed adaptation 
and mitigation strategies each business planned 
to undertake in response to risks and opportunities 
that were relevant to their respective businesses.
Whilst limitations remain, work has evolved to 
progress this in 2024. The VA assessment was 
revisited to first revalidate the highest rated risks 
and opportunities, incorporating new data obtained 
from the 2023 workstream. This enabled a revalidation 
of the highest 10 risks and opportunities to then 
identify those that could be taken forward to 
CLIMATE SCENARIOS
Physical
T
ransition
Scenario
Warming by 
2100
Future 
emissions
Energy sources
Policy narrative
Rationale for scenario
Limited 
Action 
~2.7⁰C
Medium
Mix of fossil fuels 
and renewable 
energy
Achievement of Nationally 
Determined Contributions (NDC) 
under Paris Agreement and other 
policy commitments
Represents possible future 
risks if there is minimal 
additional action 
Most significant impacts from 
physical risks
Low 
Carbon 
<2⁰C
Low
Mostly renewables 
and low-carbon fuels
Ambitious policy agenda 
leading to transformation of 
the energy system
Many advanced economies reach 
net zero emissions by 2050, with 
the rest of the world reaching net 
zero by 2070
Aligns with best-case scenario 
and current recommendation 
from the IPCC
Most significant impacts from 
transition risks
progress the development of a deeper dive 
analysis and to develop draft quantification 
methodologies. Detail on this is outlined further 
on page 113.
The Group continues to disclose the anticipated 
financial impact category associated with 
each event. 
The Group performs an assessment on TCFD 
reporting requirements and considers areas of 
the business that could be impacted by climate 
change. As a result of this assessment, the Group 
does not anticipate a material impact from 
climate-related factors in the short term. The 
Group considers climate change in its going 
concern assessment biannually and viability 
assessment annually (see page 106). As part of 
this, consideration is given to whether existing 
assets could be impaired.
It has been determined that the Group has an 
in-built resilience to the impacts of climate change 
in the short term, due to the current level of 
geographic and market diversity of its operations. 
This enables the Group to pivot away from markets 
more exposed to climate risk and expand into 
existing and/or new markets presented by the 
global response to climate change. 
The potential financial impacts of the Group’s 
positive and negative exposure to climate risks 
and opportunities require many assumptions to be 
made in respect of factors such as low-carbon 
technology forecasts, energy consumption, 
carbon pricing forecasts, and others, which are 
subject to high variability. 
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

111
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
The analysis conducted to date shows that 
the overarching business strategy would not 
be impacted, and importantly, mitigating actions 
are already in place for certain risks, which 
significantly reduces potential negative financial 
impacts. There will be opportunities to continue 
to iterate the analysis as the volume and type of 
relevant data and assumptions becomes available, 
both internally and externally to support and 
inform further quantitative assessment. 
To support future assessments of materiality in 
the context of climate-related impacts over the 
medium and longer term, the Group continues to 
engage with stakeholders. 
Risk management 
The Group maintains its approach to integrate 
climate-related risk identification into the existing 
ERM framework, which ensures consideration at 
Group, business and operational levels. Mitigation 
of, and adaptation to, climate change is identified as 
a risk on the Group risk register. This risk is 
monitored by the ExCom as part of the half year and 
full year reviews of the Group’s risk profile (see page 
89). Current management plans remain largely 
focused on exploring and understanding the full 
impacts of risks to develop appropriate mitigation 
and adaptation strategies which, where possible 
and relevant, are incorporated as part of Bridging the 
Gap action plans. Mitigation also includes the role of 
the Working Group in progressing the assessment 
and response to this risk. 
A mapping exercise is conducted to identify where 
climate change may be a cause or driver to other 
Group risks, and/ or where it may further compound 
impacts. The Balfour Beatty risk management 
process to identify, assess, respond to, and 
monitor risk (outlined on page 89) is applied by 
the business to identify climate-related risks and 
opportunities alongside other risks. Whilst this 
ensures a consistent process is applied when 
identifying and reviewing all risks, there are some 
specific additional considerations that differ for 
climate-related risk that should be considered. 
Additional guidance has been developed to 
highlight the differences (and in some cases, 
limitations) when addressing climate-related 
considerations at each stage of the risk process. 
The key differences in the time horizons over 
which the business traditionally identifies and 
assesses risk are also highlighted as part of this 
guidance. A high-level summary is provided in the 
Climate scenarios table on page 110. Reviewing 
climate-related risks and opportunities alongside 
existing strategic risks will support more targeted 
responses to manage these over the medium and 
longer term. Balfour Beatty’s IRIS ERM system 
captures risk data at each level outlined in the 
ERM framework and includes climate change as 
a specific category, providing insight to trends 
on operational and business-level risk data. The 
highest rated risks have also been incorporated 
into the IRIS Risk Library, allowing businesses 
the ability to copy high-level detail in relation 
to the risk or opportunity and to amend in the 
context of their own businesses – whether as 
an open or emerging risk. Utilisation of the Risk 
Library can be tracked, as well as the ability to 
monitor trends for risks or opportunities that 
have been categorised as climate change in IRIS.
The work undertaken in 2024 to revalidate the 
VA assessment for climate-related risks and 
opportunities sought collective input from 
business representatives, including the Asset & 
Technology Solutions team, and commercial and 
financial SBU representation. The outcomes of 
this exercise allowed the business to confirm the 
highest rated risks and opportunities and to take 
forward those most relevant in the shorter term 
to undergo more detailed analysis, which includes 
the development of draft quantification methodologies 
with third-party specialist support. The details of 
this are outlined further on page 113.
Metrics and targets 
Full details of climate-related metrics and targets, 
including Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, can be 
found in the Sustainability section on pages 50 to 
55. Balfour Beatty’s GHG abatement actions are 
aligned to the GHG reduction targets contained 
within its science-based targets, supported by a 
robust and credible GHG reduction pathway. For 
more information on Balfour Beatty’s commitment 
and progress on science-based targets, see page 50.
Transition plan
The Group will continue to monitor timelines of 
implementation pending outputs of UK Government 
consultations on the introduction of UK Sustainability 
reporting standards in line with the Transition Plan 
Taskforce (TPT) framework. Balfour Beatty 
acknowledges the TPT release of final outputs, 
including a disclosure framework, implementation 
guidance and its proposed development of sector 
specific guidance documents. The Group will work 
towards adopting the TPT disclosure framework 
guidance as it continues to integrate its own 
transition plan into the Group’s strategic goals.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
112
112
CLIMATE CHANGE AND TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES (TCFD) CONTINUED
Assessing and mitigating physical risk events to the business 
The most relevant physical climate risks identified by Balfour Beatty were validated through the VA assessment, and are reflected within the 10 highest rated risks and opportunities. In conducting a deeper review with the business, it was recognised that the approach by which to 
assess and manage each of these physical risks would be similar due to the businesses operating model and contracting principles. Whilst the likelihood of individual weather events will differ based on future time horizons, climate scenarios, geographical locations and work activity 
type, generally it was agreed that the impact on day-to-day project delivery risk will manifest as disruption or delay (resulting in potential time and cost), potential damage to assets, and risk to the safety and wellbeing of our people and other stakeholders that we work with. Balfour 
Beatty mitigates the physical risks posed by building in contingencies within project schedules for weather-related delays and has contractual mechanisms that mitigate against extreme weather events (often considered compensation events). Weather data as part of estimating and 
planning is utilised in developing project programmes and determining of contingencies. The business continues to review and monitor how to mitigate this exposure as Balfour Beatty and clients adapt commercial solutions in response to an increase in frequency and intensity of 
extreme weather events and chronic changes in heat and precipitation patterns.
Vulnerability/ Advantage assessment
The Vulnerability/ Advantage (VA) assessment is utilised to determine the level of disruption or benefit the business could be exposed to 
and the resources required to mitigate or promote it. The assessment considers criteria across Sensitivity, Exposure and Adaptive Capacity.
Prioritised physical risks
Potential impacts and 
outcomes to business
Potential adaptation and 
mitigation strategies
 
@
Risk 6 – Extreme heat leads to 
damages to physical assets and 
disruption at own sites
 
@
Risk 7 – Severe storms lead to 
damages to physical assets and 
disruption at own sites 
 
@
Risk 8 – High-speed wind leads 
to damage to physical assets and 
disruption at own sites
 
@
Increased costs as extreme weather event 
classification may not be provisioned for within 
contractual clauses
 
@
Challenging or unsafe working conditions 
for employees
 
@
Delays to project delivery from stand-down of 
sites and/or to rectify damage caused by 
weather damage
 
@
Reduction in horizon opportunities for planned 
major infrastructure schemes as projects become 
too costly to fund due to weather-driven 
cost increases
 
@
Impact on valuation of assets in known extreme 
weather zones (flood zones, high-speed wind zones)
 
@
Close monitoring of weather 
forecasts to ensure employee 
safety and adequate preparation 
 
@
Utilising third-party expertise for 
support with climate modelling to 
understand physical risk impacts as 
relevant to certain geographical 
areas of operation 
 
@
Increase resilience of sites to 
extreme weather events by 
implementing contingency plans
 
@
Considering relocation of 
manufacturing activities
2. ASSESS
1. IDENTIFY
3. RESPOND
4. MONITOR
Activities
 
@
Assess risks and 
opportunities, by 
considering size of 
potential Impact, 
and overall 
Likelihood of event 
to occur, based on 
current controls in 
place to manage
Activities
 
@
Identify material 
risk/opportunity 
events, causes and 
consequences
 
@
Identify current 
relevant 
controls in place
Activities
 
@
Accept risks and 
opportunity and 
continue to 
monitor; or
 
@
Manage further by 
developing SMART 
Actions to reduce 
or eliminate impact 
and/or likelihood
Activities
 
@
Monitor 
outstanding 
Actions and 
effectiveness of 
Controls, and 
re-assess as 
actions are 
implemented. 
 
@
Escalation of the 
most critical risks
Considerations and limitations when considering 
climate‑related events
 
@
Longer time horizons and the continuous evolution of 
climate science and associated models cause increased 
uncertainty on both impact and likelihood
 
@
Limited or inconsistent data to accurately quantify at a Group 
level. Detailed methodologies with data validation and 
limited third-party assurance would be required for any 
financial assessment calculated for Group level events
 
@
Impacts are more qualitative in nature – VA assessment 
utilised as a tool at Group level to consider Exposure, 
Sensitivity and Adaptive Capacity ratings as part of overall 
Consequence Rating
 
@
Impacts identified at Project level can still be quantified in 
the short term in relation to time and cost, where relevant. 
Business level impacts may be quantified where known 
e.g. pursuit of a very new opportunity in relation to climate 
change but substantiation and robust assessment rationale 
is required
Considerations and limitations 
when considering 
climate‑related events
 
@
Events span longer time 
horizons and may not occur 
in the current business 
planning period (more risks 
captured as emerging)
 
@
Due to timeframes, current 
controls tend to be 
longer-term strategic 
planning and innovative 
thinking, that will become 
more specific and targeted 
over time
 
@
Events need to be considered 
in different possible futures 
(Low Carbon or Limited 
Action scenarios)
Considerations and limitations 
when considering 
climate‑related events
 
@
Responses to Manage Further 
can include better 
understanding of, adapting to, 
or mitigating the impacts of 
climate risk, and the 
promotion or pursuit of 
opportunities
 
@
Examples could be 
establishing indicators 
to better understand the 
likelihood of possible climate 
futures, and building the 
capability to adapt to risk 
and take advantage 
of opportunities
Considerations and limitations 
when considering 
climate‑related events
 
@
Often, risks and opportunities 
have unknown or 
approximated impacts and 
are captured and tracked 
as Emerging
 
@
Key Risk (and Opportunity) 
Indicators will be leveraged 
to track progression
Integration of climate-related considerations into the existing Balfour Beatty risk process
Climate-related risks and opportunities span from short term to long term
Traditional risk time horizon– 3 years
VA
 
@
Sensitivity – considers the impact of a physical or transition risk 
event in terms of disruption to operations or core functions and the 
severity of this impact. For opportunities, it considers the potential 
financial gain to the business.
 
@
Exposure – considers the portion of the business that is physically 
located or directly impacted by a risk event or that could be related 
to the opportunity.
 
@
Adaptive Capacity – considers the Group's ability to adjust to the 
projected impact, considering potential cost and intervention or 
investment. This also considers any cost or business model 
changes needed to exploit or pursue an opportunity. 
Exposure
Adaptive 
Capacity
Sensitivity
SEE PAGE 89 FOR MORE 
INFORMATION ON OUR RISK 
MANAGEMENT PROCESS
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

113
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
Highest rated climate-related risks and opportunities
The principal activity undertaken for Balfour Beatty’s climate risk 
and opportunity assessments during 2024 was the re-validation 
and assessment of the highest rated risks and opportunities 
defined in the prior years’ workstreams. 
The approach in 2024 amended the Vulnerability/ Advantage (VA)
assessment methodology, previously, an assessment was made 
against Exposure, Adaptive Capability and Sensitivity and the overall 
assessment was formed through a weighted formula. In 2024, this 
was revised to still consider an assessment against the three 
criteria, but with a single consequence rating determined 
overall. This was then assessed alongside the likelihood to 
provide an overall rating for each risk and opportunity. This 
simplified the assessment process, allowing the subject matter 
experts engaged in the workshop to collectively agree and 
validate an overall rating. From the risks and opportunities 
highlighted through this process, three events were taken forward 
as the most significant to the Group in the shorter term, 
a detailed analysis and draft quantification methodologies 
are outlined in this section on page 115.
Through the VA assessment workshop, highest rated risks and 
opportunities were updated and streamlined to incorporate 
impacts/outcomes to the business, potential adaptation and 
mitigation/promotion strategies and relevance to operations 
gathered from SBUs in the 2023 workstream.
Outcome of review: precipitation as a risk is now integrated 
into the broader category of storms. The risk event previously 
labelled as ‘Increase in efficiency reduces energy consumption 
and material use’, has been updated with the title ‘Resource 
efficiency through energy and material use’. The risk of droughts 
has been replaced with extreme heat as this was shown to be 
a more relevant risk to Balfour Beatty when discussed with 
stakeholders. The opportunity event ‘Increase in demand for 
green, energy-efficient, and Net Zero buildings/ infrastructure 
increases awarded contracts’ when assessed fell outside the 
top 10, granting the risk event ‘
Allowing establishment of/ 
increased number of regulations on material use and activities 
in the long-term’ to enter the top 10 list.
TOP 10 HIGHEST RATED CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES 
Number
Type
Name
1*
Opportunity
Increase in demand for renewable and low-carbon energy 
generation, storage, transmission and distribution increases 
awarded contracts
2*
Transition Risk
Carbon pricing increases prices of energy and raw materials
3*
Transition Risk
Transitioning of owned plant, fleet, and equipment to 
lower-carbon options
4
Opportunity
Increase in demand for climate disaster adaptation/climate 
resilient infrastructure increases awarded contracts
5
Opportunity
Resource efficiencies through energy and material use
6
Physical Risk
Extreme heat leads to damages to physical assets and 
disruption at own sites
7
Physical Risk
Severe storms lead to damages to physical assets and 
disruption at own sites 
8
Physical Risk
High-speed wind leads to damage to physical assets and 
disruption at own sites
9
Physical Risk
Insurance premiums increase/become unavailable due to higher 
cost of adaptation measures or more stringent insurance policies
10
Transition Risk
Establishment of/increased number of regulations on material 
use and activities in the long-term
* Selected for ‘deep dive’ 
 
Increase in demand for renewable and low-carbon energy generation, storage, transmission and distribution increases awarded contracts
There is a record capital investment in energy infrastructure driven by a growing demand for clean and secure energy and increase in renewable energy (see pages 14 to 17), all of which contribute to Balfour Beatty being well positioned to pursue 
opportunities in the markets of nuclear, grid upgrades, net zero power generation, and carbon capture schemes (CCS) projects in the UK.
Potential impacts and 
outcomes to business
 
@
Increased revenue from a focused pursuit 
of opportunities related to nuclear, grid 
upgrades, net zero power generation and 
CCS projects.
 
@
Opportunity to expand business 
capability and skillsets.
 
@
Collaboration with design partners to 
develop low-carbon solutions. 
 
@
Support transition to lower-carbon economy. 
 
@
Collaboration with new and 
sustainable customers. 
 
@
Positive impact on ESG scores. 
Potential adaptation and 
promotion mitigation
 
@
Enhanced collaboration and dialogue with 
value chain members.
 
@
Promotion of research and development 
in green infrastructure technologies.
 
@
Creation of partnerships to promote new 
green infrastructure.
 
@
Increased focus on climate-related 
opportunities through integration of 
climate-related opportunities into 
business growth strategies and work 
winning activities.
Approach to quantification 
Balfour Beatty has already conducted a financial assessment 
of prioritised opportunities from 2025 out to 2030 and for the 
foreseeable project opportunities beyond 2030. To build upon this 
in the context of climate-related opportunities, data sources were 
utilised for the UK energy market transition strategy highlighting 
the capital investment trends and energy-related opportunities 
until 2050 as well as the serviceable addressable market (portion 
of market that can be captured by Balfour Beatty). For more 
information on how the Group are capitalising on high-growth 
markets where the Group has the capabilities and a proven track 
record to secure new opportunities see pages 14 to 21. 2024 
momentum in the UK energy transition and security market 
demonstrates the scale of the opportunity and relevance to 
Balfour Beatty operations such as the awarded contract of the 
first phase of the Skye 132kV reinforcement project for Scottish 
and Southern Electricity Networks (SSEN) Transmission. Work 
was undertaken in 2024 to further understand this opportunity by:
 
@
Undertaking a ‘SWOT’ analysis on this opportunity based on 
stakeholder interviews. Finding that, the overall strength 
was in the Support Services businesses in the UK having 
well placed strategic positioning, enabling the business to 
capitalise on opportunities arising in this market. However, 
this rapid growth has been identified as having limitation 
and the key ‘weakness’ in this SWOT analysis, requiring 
the Group to add resources and expertise to maintain 
high‑quality services. The principal opportunity is that in 
2024, the UK Government has outlined a clear political 
commitment to invest in clean energy solutions including 
onshore and offshore wind, nuclear power, carbon capture 
and storage, and other energy transition and security 
schemes, government efforts to increase clean energy 
production will create numerous opportunities for Balfour 
Beatty in power transmission, nuclear, and grid decarbonisation 
sectors. Although the key ‘threats’ in this analysis were 
long-term project horizon uncertainty and price controls 
on core clientele.
 
@
Producing analysis across both climate scenarios of 
‘low-carbon’ and ‘limited action’ as nuclear, grid upgrades, 
net zero power generation, and CCS projects are expected 
to increase in all future energy scenarios that achieve net 
zero in the UK.
Financial impact 
category
Anticipated time 
horizons
Increased 
revenue
Short term
Medium term
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
114
114
Highest rated climate-related risks and opportunities continued
CLIMATE CHANGE AND TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES (TCFD) CONTINUED
 
Carbon pricing increases prices of energy and raw materials
Carbon pricing will affect both project delivery and the supply chain by increasing costs of essential goods and services fundamental to operational delivery. Balfour Beatty’s exposure 
from carbon pricing focuses primarily on impact on high-carbon material prices. Cement and steel were identified to be the two most exposed materials to carbon pricing.
Potential impacts and 
outcomes to business
 
@
Increased cost to the business, 
supply chain and to customers.
 
@
Potential reduction in future projects 
horizon if major infrastructure projects 
become too costly to fund.
Potential adaptation and 
promotion mitigation
 
@
Monitoring of current carbon pricing to 
determine impact on the business and 
supply chain across geographies.
 
@
Ensure where possible protection 
from increased cost through contractual 
mechanisms.
 
@
Implementing efficient use of the 
products and services we procure.
 
@
Avoiding, minimising or replacing 
carbon‑intensive products and services 
for lower-carbon alternatives.
Approach to quantification 
 
@
Balfour Beatty’s exposure from carbon pricing focuses 
primarily on impact on high-carbon material prices. Cement 
and steel were identified to be the two most exposed materials 
to carbon pricing. Beyond increasing carbon prices, a major 
development that is expected to impact cement and steel 
prices is expected phase out of free allowances. Currently 
the level of free allowances for cement and steel means 
producers only pay carbon price on 10 – 20% of the emissions. 
Within EU ETS, these free allowances are expected to be 
phased out by 2034 leading to a significant increase in the 
prices of cement and steel. 
 
@
Analysis highlights that even with a higher level of carbon 
pricing in the short term, high-carbon cement and steel are 
still expected to be cheaper than lower emission alternatives. 
In the medium-long term, with reducing free allowances and 
increasing carbon prices, low-carbon alternatives become 
cost competitive with high-carbon steel and cement. Failure 
to switch to low-carbon alternatives within a medium-long 
term timeline, therefore will pose a risk from carbon pricing 
to Balfour Beatty. 
 
@
Many of the Group’s contracts currently have the provision 
to track material prices through various indices and pass 
higher costs to customers. Any gradual changes in material 
prices due to increase in carbon pricing is therefore mitigated 
if captured by the indices. In addition to this, compensation 
events also exist to safeguard against changes in material 
prices driven by changes in legislation. This allows Balfour 
Beatty to manage the costs of carbon pricing. However, 
risk can manifest if material price indices incorporated 
within project contracts do not incorporate changes from 
carbon pricing.
 
@
Analysis focuses solely on the impact of changing carbon 
price regulation on high-carbon cement and steel prices 
while assuming all other costs remain the same. For comparison 
with low-carbon alternatives, levelised cost of lowest cost 
production route for cement (Oxyfuel Combustion) and steel 
(Electric Arc Furnace) was chosen. This analysis assumes 
that producers do not charge a price premium for low-carbon 
alternatives to recover R&D and first-of-a-kind technology 
implementation costs. 
 
@
This analysis was taken into the proposed calculation 
methodology under development to assess impact of carbon 
pricing (see left).
Current price of material
Future price of material
Carbon pricing impact
Avg. emissions intensity 
of material
Avg emissions intensity 
of material
Future price of material
Current carbon price
Future carbon price
Current price of material
Levelised cost of production 
of material
Levelised cost of production 
of material
Volume of procurement
Other costs1
Other costs1
Future Carbon price
Current free allowances
Future free allowances
Additional analysis was undertaken to compare the future price of high-carbon materials with low-carbon alternatives to identify timeline in which the latter reach parity with high-carbon materials. 
This acts as a mitigation measure to reduce exposure to carbon pricing in the long term.
 Calculated outputs 
 Internal inputs
 Sensitivity inputs
 External inputs
This methodology is also used to estimate the cost of low-carbon alternatives which have different 
levelised cost of production and emissions intensity.
1 Other costs are calculated retrospectively based the 
remaining share of cost after subtracting carbon pricing and 
levelised cost of production from the current price of 
material. It is assumed to be constant across time frames 
and production routes (i.e., other costs of EAF steel are 
assumed to be the same as for blast furnace steel)
Financial impact 
category
Anticipated time 
horizons
Proposed methodology 
under development
Increased 
OPEX
Short term
Medium term
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

115
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
 
Transitioning of owned plant, fleet, and equipment to low-carbon options
Across the Group, there is growing demand both internally and from our customers for low-carbon options for equipment. Asset and Technology Solutions (ATS) is a specialist in-house team which provides comprehensive plant, vehicle 
and equipment services to Balfour Beatty across the UK. Strategic asset services include in-house solutions such as HGVs, tower and crawler cranes, piling equipment, fire and security services, suction excavation, modular buildings 
and driver risk. Across all these asset types the challenges of availability and commercial viability of low-carbon options for equipment and machinery, and the extent of EV charging infrastructure, have the potential to impact the Group’s 
ability to fulfil customer climate-related ambitions.
Potential impacts and 
outcomes to business
 
@
Higher capital expenditures to purchase 
lower-carbon alternatives.
 
@
Potential under-utilisation of the asset 
due to low uptake (due to high cost, lack 
of infrastructure etc.) leading to lower 
return on investment.
 
@
Failure to keep pace with 
customer demand.
 
@
Increased research, innovation and 
implementation costs may present risks 
associated with bringing new technologies 
to market, resulting in new skills development 
and training required to deploy 
low-emission technology alternatives. 
 
@
Lifecycle of existing assets may be 
reduced resulting in early impairment 
and retirement, or write-off of plant, 
equipment and fleet assets. Investment 
in newer replacement assets earlier 
than planned.
 
@
Low-carbon technology for high-impact 
equipment does not innovate as fast as 
required in order to meet milestones of 
planned carbon reduction targets. 
 
@
A disparity grows between geographies 
and regions with more robust EV charging 
or hydrogen supply infrastructure in 
comparison to lagging jurisdictions 
where this technology is not available 
to implement at all or at scale.
Potential adaptation and 
promotion mitigation
 
@
Assess the viability of construction 
projects that utilise low-carbon 
emission technology.
 
@
Enable capability by providing training for 
low-carbon design optioneering and use 
of new technologies. 
 
@
Strong collaboration with supply chain to 
ensure low-carbon asset requirements 
are met, and implemented through the 
Asset and Technology Solutions team. 
 
@
Continue to implement ‘Eco-operator’ 
training to ensure lean driver behaviours 
and more effective asset management to 
deliver fuel efficiencies for plant 
and equipment.
Approach to quantification 
Balfour Beatty’s near-term SBTi commitments require Scope 1 
and 2 emissions to be reduced by 42% by 2030. For UK and 
certain US operations, Balfour Beatty owns a significant asset 
base of diesel-based fleet and construction equipment that 
contribute to these emissions. The need to transition assets 
to lower-carbon alternatives has been identified as a pathway 
in which to meet the Group’s Scope 1 and 2 targets. 
Transitioning to low-carbon assets requires higher capital 
expenditure than diesel alternatives. To assess this risk, 
a preliminary analysis was performed to identify the impact of 
additional investment necessary to transition three key Balfour 
Beatty owned assets: HGVs, LCVs and piling rigs. 
To further explore these impacts: 
 
@
Cost impact for customers associated with transitioning 
electric/ H2 assets was evaluated alongside the impact of 
under-utilisation on asset return on investment (ROI).
 
@
A preliminary quantification exercise was performed on the 
total cost of hiring incurred by our customers for electric 
piling rigs vs diesel piling rigs based on current and future 
trends of piling rig CAPEX, fuel costs and supporting 
infrastructure necessary to mobilise these assets. Piling 
rigs were chosen as this activity undertaken in the Group’s 
operations is both carbon-intensive and key specialist 
business workstream for the Group. A proposed calculation 
methodology for this quantification exercise is presented 
below. This considers the current age and replacement 
frequency of piling rigs owned by the Group as well as 
CAPEX inputs based on analysis on expected CAPEX 
requirements of low-carbon piling rigs drawing from public 
literature on CAPEX trends (ICCT1) under both ‘low-carbon’ 
and ‘limited action’ climate scenarios.
Proposed methodology under development
Evaluate cost impact for customers associated with transitioning to electric/H2 assets and impact of under-utilisation on asset ROI 
using piling rigs as a case study
While purchasing electric/H2 assets financial risk arises due to under-utilisation due to higher costs and failure to meet performance standards
Compared with daily charge rate 
for diesel assets to understand risk 
of under-utilisation
 External inputs
 Sensitivity inputs
 Internal inputs
 Calculated outputs
Assess how ROI changes based on 
utilisation rate
CAPEX (Electric)
Weighted 
Average Cost of 
Capital (WACC)
Fixed OPEX
Asset life
Daily rate to be charged 
for electric piling for 
positive net present 
value (NPV)
Utilisation rate
Financial impact 
category
Anticipated time 
horizons
Increased 
CAPEX
Short term
Medium term
Long term
1 

Assessment of Light-duty electric vehicle 
costs and consumer benefits in the 
United States in the 2022 – 2035 
Timeframe by International Council of 
Clean Transportation (ICCT).
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

116
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
GOVERNANCE
Promoting 
the long-term, 
sustainable 
success of 
the Company
Board leadership and 
Company purpose
 
@ Group Chair’s introduction
 
@ Leading with experience
 
@ Board activities
 
@ Promoting a positive culture
 
@ Stakeholder engagement
 
@ Report of the Workforce Engagement Lead
 p117
Division of 
responsibilities
 
@ A robust governance framework
 p132
Composition, succession 
and evaluation
 
@ Board composition
 
@ Board succession
 
@ Board evaluation
 p136
Nomination
Committee
 
@ Report of the Nomination Committee Chair
 
@ Board composition and succession
 
@ Diversity and inclusion
 p140
Safety and Sustainability 
Committee
 
@ Report of the Safety and Sustainability 
Committee Chair
 
@ Safety performance and Zero Harm
 
@ Environment and sustainability
 p144
Audit and Risk Committee
 
@ Report of the Audit and Risk Committee Chair
 
@ Financial reporting
 
@ External auditor
 
@ Risk management and internal control
 p146
Remuneration Committee
 
@ Report of the Remuneration Committee Chair
 
@ Remuneration at a glance
 
@ Annual report on remuneration
 p153
Directors’ report
 p175
IN THIS SECTION
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
STRATEGIC REPORT

--- PAGE BREAK ---

117
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Group Chair’s 
introduction
BOARD LEADERSHIP AND COMPANY PURPOSE
Dear Shareholder
On behalf of the Board, I am 
delighted to present the 2024 
Corporate Governance report. The 
report provides an overview of our 
governance framework, a summary 
of the Board’s activities throughout 
the year, and our priorities and focus 
for 2025.
The Board oversees the Group’s purpose, values 
and strategy, ensuring that these are aligned to 
the culture of the business. Throughout 2024, 
the Board continued to focus on the delivery of 
our Build to Last strategy, which is underpinned 
by strong governance and internal controls. 
Board activities
Substantial items that featured on the 2024 
Board agenda include: 
 
@ Board succession planning and recruitment;
 
@ oversight (through the Audit and Risk 
Committee) of a programme to implement 
an enhanced Group-wide Internal Control 
Framework (ICF) in anticipation of compliance 
with Provision 29 of the 2024 UK Corporate 
Governance Code;
 
@ the results of the external Board 
performance review;
 
@ a review of employee engagement survey data 
and other workforce engagement data and insights; 
 
@ updates on key projects; and
 
@ oversight of the compliance monitor’s reports 
in respect of the US Military Housing business.
Changes to the Board in 2024
Throughout 2024, the Board underwent 
a number of changes:
 
@ With the support of executive search firm 
Odgers Berndtson, Robert MacLeod and 
Gabby Costigan MBE were appointed to the 
Board as Independent Non-executive Directors 
on 8 March 2024.
 
@ At the conclusion of the 2024 AGM, 
Dr Stephen Billingham CBE and Stuart 
Doughty CMG both retired from the Board.
 
@ Anne Drinkwater was appointed as Senior 
Independent Non-executive Director (replacing 
Dr Stephen Billingham CBE).
 
@ Committee membership was updated to 
ensure a balanced mix of skills, experience 
and knowledge across each Board Committee. 
 
@ With the support of executive search firm 
Heidrick & Struggles, Rudy Wynter was 
appointed to the Board as Independent 
Non-executive Director on 1 December 2024.
Diversity and inclusion: 
the Board and beyond
As a result of the Board appointments highlighted 
above, the Board have continued to comply with 
the targets set by the FTSE Women Leaders 
Review, and for the first time, complied with the 
target set by the Parker Review, to have at least 
one Director from an ethnic minority background. 
We are proud to be a diverse Board, and hope 
to leverage our diversity to successfully lead 
the Group and support the delivery of workforce 
diversity and inclusion initiatives. 
Change to the Board in 2025
As announced in March 2025, Philip Hoare will 
join the Company as Group Chief Executive Officer 
in September 2025. Leo Quinn will remain with 
the Group for several months beyond this to 
ensure a seamless transition. Philip’s appointment 
is in accordance with the Board’s succession 
plan which included an extensive search process 
led by Odgers Berndtson. Details about this 
process will be set out in the report of the 
Nomination Committee in 2025.
Board performance review
In 2024, the Board underwent an externally 
facilitated Board performance review conducted 
by Egon Zehnder. The review concluded that the 
Board and its Committees continued to operate 
effectively throughout 2024. Please refer to 
pages 137 to 139 for more details on the scope 
of the review as well as a summary of the key 
actions to be undertaken in 2025. 
Dividend
At the 2025 AGM, due to be held on 8 May 2025, 
the Board proposes a resolution, subject to 
shareholder approval, to pay a final dividend 
of 8.7 pence per share. 
Our approach this year continues to strike a 
balance between investing in our business and 
providing returns for shareholders, with the aim 
of delivering against our Build to Last strategy 
and promoting the long-term sustainable success 
of the Group. 
Charles Allen
Lord Allen of Kensington, CBE
Non-executive Group Chair 
11 March 2025
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

118
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Governance at a glance 
KEY ACTIONS FROM 2024
 
@ Carried out searches for three new 
Independent Non-executive Directors
 
@ Oversaw the induction process of 
newly appointed Independent 
Non‑executive Directors 
 
@ Reviewed progress against the military 
housing business’ response to the 
independent compliance monitor’s initial 
and first follow-up report and resulting 
action plans 
 
@ Undertook an externally facilitated 
Board performance review in Q4 2024 
 
@ Reviewed preparations for compliance 
with the 2024 UK Corporate Governance 
Code, and oversaw the development of 
an enhanced Internal Control 
Framework (ICF)
 
@ Conducted succession planning for 
the Board, Executive Committee, 
and senior management
PRIORITIES FOR 2025
 
@ Complete the actions arising from 
the 2024 Board performance review 
 
@ Review Board balance and composition 
and conduct Board and Executive 
Committee succession planning
 
@ Maintain oversight of the progress 
made against the Compliance Monitor’s 
recommendations and action plans 
in respect of the US military 
housing business 
 
@ Monitor the progress and implementation 
of the ICF across the Group with respect 
to material controls 
 
@ Review and implement the 2024 UK 
Corporate Governance Code reforms
 
@ Deliver a comprehensive induction and 
handover to the incoming Group Chief 
Executive, Philip Hoare, who joins the 
Board in September 2025
BOARD LEADERSHIP AND COMPANY PURPOSE CONTINUED
INDICATION OF 
RELATIVE TIME SPENT 
IN BOARD AND 
COMMITTEE 
MEETINGS
 Board
58%
 
Remuneration Committee
10%
 
Audit and Risk Committee
19%
 
Safety and Sustainability Committee
10%
 
Nomination Committee
3%
How the Board spent its time during 2024
INDICATION OF 
TIME SPENT IN 
BOARD MEETINGS
 Strategy, performance and operations
69%
 
Reviewing matters discussed at 
Committee meetings
12%
 
Governance and other matters
19%
BOARD AND COMMITTEE SCHEDULED MEETINGS DURING THE YEAR
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
B
A
A
A
A
N
N
R
R
R
R
S
S
S
JAN
FEB
MAR
APR
MAY
JUN
JUL
AUG
SEP
OCT
NOV
DEC
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
STRATEGIC REPORT

--- PAGE BREAK ---

119
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Board composition and diversity
UK Corporate 
Governance Code
During the year, the Company was subject to the Financial 
Reporting Council’s 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code, 
which can be found at: www.frc.org.uk.
This report, together with the reports from the Audit 
and Risk, Nomination, Remuneration, and Safety and 
Sustainability Committees, provide details of how the 
Company has applied the spirit of the principles of the 
Code (pages 117 to 178).
In 2024, the Company complied with all the provisions 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
1. Board Leadership and Company Purpose
Page(s)
A. Effective Board
137-139
B. Purpose, values and culture
117-178
C. Governance framework
132-135
D. Stakeholder engagement
127-131
E. Workforce policies and practices
77, 142
2. Division of Responsibilities
F. Role of the Chair
133
G. Independence
136
H. External commitments and conflicts of interest
136
I. Board resources
132-139
3. Composition, Succession and Evaluation
J. Appointment to the Board
136-137
K. Board skills, experience and knowledge
120-121, 136
L. Annual Board evaluation
137-139
4. Audit, Risk and Internal Control
M. External Auditor and Internal Auditor
150-152
N. Fair, balanced and understandable review 149-150, 178
O. Internal financial controls and risk management146-155
5. Remuneration
P. Linking remuneration to purpose and strategy
153-160
Q. Remuneration Policy review
155, 158-160
R. Performance outcomes in 2024/25
161-174
DIVERSITY OF 
NATIONALITIES
NON-EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTORS’ 
TENURE
AGE DIVERSITY 
31 DEC 24
 UK
7
 US
2
 Australia
1
31 DEC 24
 0-3y
5
 4-6y
1
 7-9y
2
31 DEC 24
 45-54
1
 55-64
4
 65+
5
31 DEC 24
 Female
40%
 Male
60%
BOARD GENDER 
DIVERSITY 
BOARD 
INDEPENDENCE
31 DEC 24
 Executive Directors
2
 
Independent Nonexecutive Directors
7
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
120
120
Leading with 
experience
The Directors hold the necessary skills and 
experience relevant to the sectors in which 
the Group operates, enabling the Board to 
effectively set the strategic direction and 
purpose of the Group and promote its 
long‑term sustainable success.
Key
 Committee Chair
 A Audit and Risk Committee
 
N Nomination Committee
 R Remuneration Committee
 S 
Safety and Sustainability Committee
* 
Tenure as at 31 December 2024
PHILIP HARRISON
Chief Financial Officer
Appointed
1 June 2015
Nationality
British
Tenure
9 years, 7 months
Board Attendance
100%
Experience
Philip has considerable financial expertise 
and extensive experience of working in 
large multinational manufacturing and 
services businesses. Philip was appointed 
as Chief Financial Officer in June 2015, 
having previously served as Group Finance 
Director at Hogg Robinson Group plc, and 
as Group Finance Director at VT Group 
plc. Prior to that, he was VP Finance at 
Hewlett-Packard (Europe, Middle East 
and Africa regions) and was a member 
of its EMEA board.
Philip’s earlier career included senior 
international finance roles at Compaq, 
Rank Xerox and Texas Instruments. Philip 
is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of 
Management Accountants.
Key external appointments
Philip is a Non-executive Director and 
Chair of the Audit Committee of Dowlais 
Group plc.
 S
CHARLES ALLEN, LORD ALLEN 
OF KENSINGTON, CBE
Non-executive Group Chair
Appointed
13 May 2021
Nationality
British
Tenure
3 years, 7 months
Board and Committee
Attendance
100%
Experience
Lord Allen has extensive corporate 
experience across a range of sectors, 
most notably in support services and 
media. His previous positions include 
Chair of ISS A/S, Executive Chair of EMI 
Music, Chief Executive of ITV plc, Chief 
Executive of Compass Group, Chief 
Executive of Granada Group and Chief 
Adviser to the British Home Office. 
Charles was awarded a CBE in 2002, was 
knighted in 2012 and was ennobled in 2013.
Key external appointments
Lord Allen sits in the House of Lords 
and currently holds positions as Chair 
of THG PLC, Chair of Global Media and 
Entertainment Ltd, and Chair of the 
Invictus Games Foundation. 
 N
BOARD LEADERSHIP AND COMPANY PURPOSE CONTINUED
LEO QUINN
Group Chief Executive
Appointed
1 January 2015
Nationality
British
Tenure
10 years 
Board and Committee 
Attendance
100%
Experience
Leo has strong leadership expertise and 
significant experience of successfully 
delivering transformation strategies for large 
companies. Leo is a civil engineer with an 
MSc in Management Science. Leo has held 
a number of leadership roles, including 
Group Chief Executive of QinetiQ Group plc, 
Chief Executive Officer of De La Rue plc, 
and Chief Operating Officer of Invensys 
plc’s production management business. 
Leo also held a number of senior 
management roles with Honeywell Inc.
Leo was also previously a Non-executive 
Director of Betfair Group plc and Tomkins plc.
Key external appointments
Leo is the founder of The 5% Club, 
a dynamic movement of employers 
committed to ‘earn and learn’ as part of 
building and developing the workforce 
needed for a socially mobile, prosperous 
and cohesive nation. 
Succession
As announced in March 2025, after 
10 years in the role, Leo Quinn will step 
down from the Board later this year, to 
be succeeded by Philip Hoare.
ANNE DRINKWATER
Senior Independent 
Non‑executive Director
Appointed
1 December 2018
Nationality
British
Tenure
6 years, 1 month
Board and Committee 
Attendance
Full attendance, except for the 11 March 
Board meeting due to a conflict with a 
prior commitment. 
Experience
Anne has significant experience in heavy 
industry including multiple large capital 
expenditure projects with infrastructure 
considerations and knowledge of doing 
business in the UK and US. She was at BP 
plc for over 30 years, holding a number of 
senior strategic and operational roles across 
multiple jurisdictions including the US, 
Norway, Indonesia, the Middle East and 
Africa culminating in the role of President 
and CEO of the Canadian business. Anne 
was previously a Non-executive Director 
at Aker Solutions A.S.A. and at UK listed 
Tullow Oil plc, where she served on a 
number of board committees. She was 
previously Oil and Gas Adviser to the 
Falkland Islands Government.
Key external appointments
Anne is Non-executive Deputy Chair 
of Equinor A.S.A. where she is also Chair 
of the Audit Committee and a member 
of the Safety, Sustainability and 
Ethics Committee.
 R
 S
 S
 N
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
STRATEGIC REPORT

--- PAGE BREAK ---

121
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
MICHAEL LUCKI
Independent Non-executive Director
Appointed
1 July 2017
Nationality
American
Tenure
7 years, 6 months
Board and Committee 
Attendance
100%
Experience
Michael has over 40 years of business 
and leadership experience in the US and 
internationally in the engineering and 
construction sector. He has held a number 
of leadership and finance roles, including 
that of Chief Financial Officer, Executive 
Vice President and board member at CH2M 
HILL. He was formerly an Audit Partner at 
Ernst & Young LLP and its global industry 
leader for infrastructure, construction and 
engineering practices. He has recently 
acted as a strategic adviser to companies 
and private equity firms in the engineering 
and construction industry.
Key external appointments
Michael is Independent Board member, 
Chair of the Audit Committee of Zhibao 
Technology Inc. Michael is also a board 
member and Chair of the Compensation 
Committee of Psomas Corporation, and a 
board member and Chair of the Audit and 
Risk Committee of Bernards Construction 
and HMC Architects, Inc. Michael is a 
member of the Board of Governors of The 
California State University Foundation, and 
a board member of Walker Consultants. 
 A
 R
BARBARA MOORHOUSE
Independent Non-executive Director
Appointed
1 June 2017
Nationality
British
Tenure
7 years, 7 months
Board and Committee 
Attendance
100%
Experience
Barbara has extensive leadership 
experience across the private, public 
and regulated sectors. She was Group 
Finance Director at Morgan Sindall plc, 
Regulatory Director at South West Water 
and Chief Finance Officer for two 
international listed IT companies – Kewill 
Systems plc and Scala Business Solutions 
NV. Latterly, she was Director General at 
the Ministry of Justice and the Department 
for Transport. Her most recent executive 
appointment was as Chief Operating 
Officer at Westminster City Council. 
She is a fellow of the Chartered Institute 
of Management Accountants and an 
associate member of the Association 
of Corporate Treasurers.
Key external appointments
Barbara is Independent Chair of the 
Agility Trains Group. Barbara is also 
Senior Independent Non-executive 
Director and Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee of Aptitude Software Group plc. 
 A
 N
 R
LOUISE HARDY
Independent Non-executive Director 
and Workforce Engagement Lead
Appointed
1 April 2022
Nationality
British
Tenure
2 years, 9 months
Board and Committee 
Attendance
100%
Experience
Louise has over 30 years of business and 
leadership experience in the construction 
and built engineering industry. A civil 
engineer, she has held a range of senior 
roles at London Underground, Bechtel, 
AECOM and Laing O’Rourke, and as 
infrastructure director responsible for the 
portfolio of projects for the London 2012 
Olympic Games. 
Louise has also held a number of 
non-executive roles in the public sector 
and FTSE 250. Louise is a Fellow of the 
Institution of Civil Engineers, the Chartered 
Management Institute and the Women’s 
Engineering Society. Louise won the 
European Women in Construction and 
Engineering, Lifetime Achievement in 
Construction Award, 2019.
Key external appointments
Louise is currently a Non-executive 
Director of Crest Nicholson Holdings plc 
and Travis Perkins plc. Louise is also 
Independent Chair of Oriel. She is also a 
STEM Ambassador and Diversity Champion.
 A
 S
RUDOLPH (RUDY) WYNTER 
Independent Non-executive Director
Appointed
1 December 2024
Nationality
American
Tenure
1 month
Board and Committee 
Attendance
100%
Experience
Rudy has a Bachelor’s in Mechanical 
Engineering from Pratt Institute and a 
Master of Business Administration from 
Fordham University in the US. He has 
over 35 years’ experience in the gas and 
electricity industry where he has served 
in many leadership and senior operational 
roles. His most recent role was as President, 
National Grid New York, leading the 
company’s regulated energy delivery 
portfolio. Prior to this, Rudy was Chief 
Operating Officer of National Grid’s 
Wholesale Networks & Capital 
Delivery business.
Key external appointments
Rudy is currently a Non-executive 
Director and Chair of the Nominating 
and Corporate Governance Committee at 
EnerSys Inc (NYSE:ENS) and an independent 
board member of El Paso Electric, the 
energy provider engaged in generation, 
transmission and distribution services.
GABRIELLE (GABBY) 
COSTIGAN MBE
Independent Non‑executive Director
Appointed
8 March 2024
Nationality 
Australian
Tenure
10 months
Board and Committee 
Attendance
Full attendance, except for 12 November 
Nomination Committee, due to a conflict 
with a prior commitment.
Experience
Gabby is an Aeronautical Engineer with 
a diverse international career including 
21 years in the Australian Army. She was 
previously Chief Executive Officer of the 
logistics business, Linfox International 
Group. In 2017, she joined BAE Systems 
plc as Chief Executive Officer of BAE 
Systems Australia before being promoted 
to her current role of Group Managing 
Director, Business Development and a 
member of the Executive Committee.
Key external appointments
Gabby is currently the Group Managing 
Director of Business Development for 
BAE Systems. 
 S
 N
ROBERT MACLEOD
Independent Non-executive Director
Appointed
8 March 2024
Nationality
British
Tenure
10 months
Board and Committee 
Attendance
100%
Experience
Robert is a highly experienced Chief 
Executive Officer and Chief Financial 
Officer and brings strong strategic, 
financial, and commercial experience 
to the Board. 
A Chartered Accountant by background, 
he was formerly Chief Executive Officer 
of Johnson Matthey plc from 2014 to 
2022 and Chief Financial Officer from 
2009 to 2014. Prior to this, he worked at 
WS Atkins PLC, serving as Chief Financial 
Officer for six years. Robert was a 
Non-executive Director of Aggreko plc 
from 2007 to 2016.
Key external appointments
Robert is currently a Non-executive 
Director and Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee of RELX plc and a Non-executive 
Director of Vesuvius plc.
 A
 R
 N
 S
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
122
122
BOARD LEADERSHIP AND COMPANY PURPOSE CONTINUED
Q&A with our 
new Directors
As Chair of the Safety and 
Sustainability Committee, 
how would you describe 
Balfour Beatty’s culture of 
sustainability?
I think to test whether sustainability 
has truly penetrated the culture 
of an organisation you need to 
assess whether employees see 
sustainability as a part of their 
everyday role and take real 
responsibility for it. 
At Balfour Beatty, this can be 
clearly seen and evidenced 
through the My Contribution 
(MyC) platform. The MyC platform 
actively encourages all employees 
to propose and implement their 
own ideas for business change 
with the hope of realising 
benefits for the business 
(e.g. to save money, save time 
and eliminate waste). The 
sustainability-themed ideas 
that have been proposed and 
delivered through the MyC 
platform in 2024 illustrate that 
employees not only care 
about sustainability, but they 
are also willing to own it and 
deliver it themselves.
As a woman who has worked 
in male-dominated industries 
throughout your career, what 
has your experience been? 
And how will that experience 
shape your role and the voice 
of women on the Board?
In my experience, careers for 
women in male-dominated 
industries like construction 
or engineering (which is my 
background) require a lot of hard 
work, perseverance, courage, 
resilience and self-belief. But it 
is my belief that women belong 
in those industries and have a 
real part to play in their success. 
Throughout my career I have 
faced a number of challenges, 
including toxic workplace culture, 
gender bias and inequality in 
recognition and career advancement 
opportunities compared to my 
male counterparts. These have 
been tough moments to overcome, 
but these experiences have 
provided me with a toolkit, 
that I believe, will help 
women to succeed in any 
male-dominated industry. 
Some of the most important 
tools are to:
 
@ Be visible. Make your 
contributions known and share 
your achievements. 
 
@ Know your worth. and use that 
to negotiate confidently. 
 
@ Don’t be intimidated. 
Always call out behaviours that 
are offensive and breach your 
company’s ethical and 
cultural values.
 
@ Develop a support network, 
particularly with other women. 
As a woman on the Board, and 
particularly as a member of the 
Nomination Committee, it is 
vital that we oversee a genderdiverse pipeline of succession 
to senior leadership roles and 
support the career development 
of women during their Balfour 
Beatty career. It is our role as 
a Board to establish a culture 
where women are encouraged 
to flourish within the 
construction industry.
Q
Q
Gabby 
Costigan
Independent 
Non‑executive 
Director
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
STRATEGIC REPORT

--- PAGE BREAK ---

123
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Robert MacLeod
Independent 
Non‑executive Director
How has your induction at Balfour 
Beatty prepared you for your role 
as an Independent Non-executive 
Director and Chair of the Audit and 
Risk Committee?
My induction programme has been really 
interesting and varied. I have undertaken 
a number of site visits, including visits to 
the Automated People Mover project at 
Los Angeles International Airport and 
the Cyberport Expansion Project in Hong 
Kong. These site visits have been highly 
informative and really bring to life the 
scale and complexity of the infrastructure 
projects the Group delivers for its clients.
To help build my understanding of the 
Group, and in particular the areas of 
key relevance to my role as Chair of the 
Audit and Risk Committee, my induction 
included a series of meetings with key 
stakeholders, including members of the 
Board of Directors, the Company Secretary, 
our Statutory Auditor (KPMG), and key 
individuals within the Finance, Internal 
Audit, and Risk functions.
As Chair of the Audit and Risk 
Committee, what are your 
priorities for 2025?
The Committee’s core areas of focus 
for 2025 are to:
 
@ conduct the tender process for 
selection of an external audit firm 
by 31 December 2026;
 
@ maintain the Committee’s oversight 
of the compliance monitor’s 
recommendations in respect of the 
US Military Housing business following 
the 2024 first follow-up report, ensuring 
it regularly features on the agenda and 
receives adequate time and focus; and
 
@ oversee the development and 
implementation of a matured 
Group-wide Internal Control 
Framework (ICF) in preparation 
for compliance with Provision 29 of 
the 2024 UK Corporate Governance 
Code in the 2026 financial year.
What has your induction process 
covered so far? 
Since joining the Board in December, 
I have had the opportunity, through a 
comprehensive and tailored induction 
programme, to meet with the Group 
Chair, the Board of Directors, members 
of the Executive Committee, and senior 
management across different Business 
Units and layers of the organisation. 
As an American I have experience in 
senior leadership roles and non-executive 
Director roles for US companies. As this 
is my first UK-based appointment, my 
induction has included meetings and 
advice and guidance from the Group 
Company Secretary on UK corporate 
governance matters, such as compliance 
with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, the UK’s Listing Regime, and the 
Disclosure and Transparency Rules. 
My induction programme has thus far 
provided me with an understanding of 
Balfour Beatty’s operations, notably its 
strengths, principal and emerging risks, 
and key opportunities and challenges. 
This has enabled me to engage 
quickly with the business and hit 
the ground running in my role.
What attracted you to the 
Balfour Beatty plc Board?
The global energy market is changing. 
The demand for electricity is only 
expected to rise, and the drive to 
achieve net zero will also require heavier 
reliance on alternative and renewable 
energy sources. This requires that 
critical energy infrastructure will be 
able to accommodate energy from 
an array of renewable sources. 
For over a century, Balfour Beatty has 
been at the forefront of delivering 
power infrastructure across the UK and 
internationally. In the UK we are one 
of the largest providers of technical 
engineering solutions for the 
electricity grid.
In joining the Board, I hope to leverage 
my knowledge and expertise from 
my thirty six year career at National Grid, 
and its predecessor companies in the 
US, to support the Group to realise its 
ambitions, and deliver vital infrastructure 
that supports secure, affordable, 
decarbonised energy across our 
key markets.
Rudy Wynter
Independent 
Non‑executive Director
Q
Q
Q
Q
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
124
124
BOARD LEADERSHIP AND COMPANY PURPOSE CONTINUED
Board activities in 2024
 
@ Reviewed routine reports from the Executive 
Directors on performance
 
@ Reviewed Group strategy and approved the 
Group’s budget 
 
@ Approved the Company’s Annual Report and 
Accounts, financial results, trading updates 
and ancillary documents relating to the 
Annual General Meeting
 
@ Reviewed the capital allocation framework and 
its application
 
@ Approved matters where required in accordance 
with the matters reserved for the Board
 
@ Received ‘deep dive’ presentations and 
reports on significant matters, key contracts 
and projects
 
@ Received updates on control improvements at 
the US military housing business
 
@ Reviewed reports from the Group’s brokers
LEAN
EXPERT
 
@ Shareholders 
 
@ Customers 
 
@ Suppliers 
 
@ Partners 
 
@ Communities 
 
@ Employees
 
@ Shareholders 
 
@ Employees
 
@ Partners 
 
@ Communities 
 
@ Shareholders 
 
@ Employees 
 
@ Suppliers 
LEAN
SAFE
SUSTAINABLE
LEAN
TRUSTED
 
@ Received verbal updates from the Safety and 
Sustainability Committee following each 
Committee meeting
 
@ Received routine Group health, safety, wellbeing 
and sustainability reports where a Safety and 
Sustainability Committee meeting was not 
scheduled in the same cycle of meetings
 
@ Reviewed changes to the Group’s strategies, 
policies and procedures in relation to health, 
safety, wellbeing and sustainability 
 
@ Reviewed the environmental impact and 
sustainability of the Group’s operations, 
and the strategies and policies of the Group
 
@ Received verbal updates from the Audit and Risk 
Committee following each Committee meeting 
 
@ Received reports on financial and accounting 
issues and contract and commercial issues
 
@ Approved the going concern statement and 
assessment of viability, the Directors’ valuation 
of the Investments portfolio and principal and 
emerging risks
 
@ Approved recommendations from the Audit 
and Risk Committee relating to the fee and 
appointment of the external auditor
 
@ Received reports from the external auditor 
in respect of full and half year results 
 
@ Reviewed and monitored the Group’s risk 
profile, including a robust review of principal 
and emerging risks
 
@ Reviewed the effectiveness of the systems 
of risk management and internal control
PERFORMANCE
HEALTH, SAFETY, WELLBEING 
AND SUSTAINABILITY
AUDIT AND RISK
1
4
2
7
3
8
9
13
1
4
2
11
3
2
11
3
8
2024 has been a 
crowning year for 
Balfour Beatty following 
a decade of remarkable 
transformation. The 
Company has solidified 
its leadership in the 
industry, strengthened 
its brand, and delivered 
strong financial results.” 
Charles Allen
Lord Allen of Kensington CBE
Non-executive Group Chair
Link to 
values
Link to 
principal risks
Stakeholders 
considered
p24
p94
p26
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
STRATEGIC REPORT

--- PAGE BREAK ---

125
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
 
@ Employees 
 
@ Communities 
 
@ Partners 
 
@ Investors 
 
@ Employees 
 
@ Communities 
 
@ Shareholders
 
@ Customers 
 
@ Employees
 
@ Shareholders 
 
@ Partners 
 
@ Suppliers
TRUSTED
SAFE
EXPERT
TRUSTED
SUSTAINABLE
TRUSTED
 
@ Monitored the Company’s purpose, values 
and behaviours 
 
@ Monitored engagement with key stakeholder 
groups and reviewed the effectiveness of 
stakeholder engagement mechanisms
 
@ Received reports from the Directors on 
workforce engagement activity, as well as 
management information on workforce 
matters, including analyses of employee 
survey results
 
@ Received updates on business integrity 
including reports on Speak Up, the Group’s 
whistleblowing service
 
@ Received updates from the Group’s Affinity 
Networks and individuals participating in the 
reverse mentoring programme 
 
@ Approved the Group’s 2024 Modern 
Slavery Statement
 
@ Reviewed the effectiveness of the Board’s 
approach to workforce engagement activities 
and reporting 
 
@ Received verbal updates from the Remuneration 
Committee following each Committee meeting
 
@ Received updates and supported workforce 
diversity and inclusion initiatives
 
@ Received an annual update on pensions
 
@ Updated the Board Diversity and Inclusion Policy
 
@ Considered the new Listing Rules on Diversity 
and Inclusion
 
@ The Board and its Committees undertook an 
external performance review, conducted by 
Egon Zehnder
 
@ Conducted succession planning for the Group 
Chief Executive, Senior Independent Non-executive 
Director and Committee Chairs
 
@ The Board appointed three new Independent 
Non-executive Directors, who joined the Board 
in 2024 (Gabby Costigan MBE, Robert MacLeod 
and Rudy Wynter)
 
@ Conducted succession planning for the 
Executive Committee to support the 
development of a diverse pipeline of candidates
 
@ Reviewed conflicts of interest of the Directors
 
@ Reviewed the formal matters reserved for the 
Board and terms of reference for each of the 
Board Committees
 
@ Convened sub-committees of the Board where 
necessary to deal with specific matters
CULTURE
PEOPLE
GOVERNANCE
6
1
7
5
10
11
6
10
12
6
11
Rudy Wynter’s site visit to 
Old Oak Common station
Rudy Wynter, Independent Non-executive 
Director, undertook a site visit to Old Oak 
Common station in London as part of his 
induction to the Board. As pictured above, 
he was escorted by Stephen Tarr (Divisional 
CEO, Power, Transmission & Distribution, 
Rail and Balfour Beatty Kilpatrick; Group 
Sector Lead, UK Energy), who provided 
Rudy with a site tour and an introduction to 
the site team. When complete, the station 
will be one of the best connected in the UK, 
with six underground platforms and eight 
surface-level platforms.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
126
126
Culture on the ground 
How does the Board seek 
to understand what life is like 
for Balfour Beatty employees?
Analysis of employee engagement 
survey data enables the Board to 
understand the employee experience. 
This provides the Board with insights 
into working environments, employee 
behaviours and attitudes, as well as 
the workforce’s understanding of the 
Group’s culture. It also enables the 
Board to assess how working 
practices and behaviours align with 
the purpose, values and strategy of 
the Group.
Workforce engagement

How does the Board engage 
directly with employees to 
understand working culture 
within the Group?
The Board undertakes a number of 
site visits, participates in employee 
events, and meets with employee 
groups such as the Affinity Networks. 
The Directors report back to the full 
Board following each engagement 
activity to share any insights gained. 
Workforce engagement provides the 
Board with direct insights into working 
environments, employee attitudes, 
behaviours and practices, and the 
practical application of policies and 
standards on the ground.
Sharing experiences of workforce 
engagement activities as a Board 
facilitates broader exposure for each 
Director than would otherwise be 
possible due to the range and scale 
of the Group’s operations across 
different sectors and geographies.
Internal Audit 
How does the Internal Audit 
function support the Board’s 
oversight of culture?
The Audit and Risk Committee 
reviews the outcomes of internal 
audits judged to be less than 
satisfactory, providing a direct line of 
sight into areas of practice, policy and 
behaviours that were not at the 
desired standard (as well as any 
corrective actions taken).
Whistleblowing
How does the Board monitor 
breaches of the Group’s cultural 
and ethical values?
The Audit and Risk Committee and 
the wider Board review Speak Up 
statistics, as well as details of any 
serious cases raised through the 
Speak Up helpline and the progress 
of related investigations. 
Speak Up reports provide the Board 
with a view of the nature of employee 
concerns and trends in behaviours of 
the workforce.
Modern slavery
How does the Board ensure 
working practices uphold a culture 
of high ethical standards designed 
to protect employees?
The Board reviews and approves the 
Group’s Modern Slavery Statement. 
This provides the Board with:
 
@ a broad understanding of practices 
and behaviours across the Group, 
and how these align with the 
purpose, values and strategy of 
the Group; and
 
@ oversight of steps taken to prevent 
modern slavery and human trafficking 
within the Group and its supply chain.
BOARD LEADERSHIP AND COMPANY PURPOSE CONTINUED
Q&A: How the Board 
monitored culture in 2024
Q
Q
Health and safety culture
How does the Safety and 
Sustainability Committee 
monitor safety culture?
The Committee receives safety 
management information, 
which includes:
 
@ statistics and trends of Lost Time 
Injury Rates;
 
@ metrics on safety observations 
reported by employees; and
 
@ employee engagement survey data
This enables the Committee to assess 
the effectiveness of health, safety and 
wellbeing practices and behaviours, 
and evidences the extent of individual 
responsibility taken by employees to 
proactively report safety concerns.
Q
Q
Q
Q
The Board is committed 
to building pathways for 
constructive two-way 
dialogue with the workforce, 
enabling the employee 
voice to be present and 
heard within the boardroom, 
and part of the decisionmaking process.”
Louise Hardy
Independent Non-executive Director 
and Workforce Engagement Lead
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
STRATEGIC REPORT

--- PAGE BREAK ---

127
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
The Board designs the framework within which 
stakeholder engagement takes place, and shapes 
how relationships with key stakeholders are 
developed and maintained. The Board understands 
the importance of maintaining an ongoing interactive 
dialogue with key stakeholders, appreciating that 
this is crucial to supporting well-informed and 
high-quality decision making that creates value 
for all stakeholders and promotes the long-term 
sustainable success of the Group. 
The Board undertakes engagement initiatives 
throughout the year in order to understand the 
interests of the Group’s key stakeholders, 
specifically its customers, workforce, supply 
chain and strategic partners, communities, 
governments and investors. The Board takes 
a balanced view of the complementary and 
divergent interests in discussions and decision 
making. The Board on its own, however, cannot 
engage meaningfully with every single stakeholder. 
To address this, stakeholder engagement is 
supplemented by a network of mature executive 
and business-led stakeholder relationships across 
the Group. Feedback on wider stakeholder 
engagement is reported to the Board to support 
effective decision making and a timely recognition 
of emerging stakeholder issues.
Report of the Board’s 
Workforce Engagement Lead
I am pleased to present my 2024 Workforce 
Engagement report. 
The Board recognises that the workforce is the 
Group’s most valuable resource and is pivotal 
to building its long-term sustainable success. 
The Board is therefore committed to building 
pathways for constructive two-way dialogue with  
the workforce, enabling the employee voice to be 
present and heard within the boardroom, and 
embedded within the decision-making process. 
To ensure Balfour Beatty remains an employer 
of choice that fosters a culture and working 
environment where all employees feel safe, 
respected, and valued, and are given the tools 
to develop and succeed throughout their careers, 
the Board must listen and engage meaningfully 
with employees. 
Under my remit as the Board’s Workforce 
Engagement Lead, I am tasked with establishing 
and shaping the Group workforce engagement 
strategy and reporting to the Board on outcomes 
and insights. Further details of the workforce 
strategy can be found on page 128. 
Throughout 2024, the Board took the following 
key actions to enhance workforce engagement:
 
@ All engagement activities are recorded 
centrally and reported to the Board periodically 
to ensure balanced coverage across the 
Group’s Business Units. 
 
@ Key employee groups are identified through 
the output of the employee engagement 
survey, and these groups are then targeted 
for future Board engagement. 
 
@ Key findings from engagement activities are 
reported to the Board and discussed to ensure 
that any required actions are taken, to ensure 
lessons learned are applied, and to ensure 
any follow-up engagement is diarised for 
the Board.
Louise Hardy
Independent Non-executive Director and 
Workforce Engagement Lead
11 March 2025 
The Board endeavours to take a balanced view of stakeholder needs and interests 
in all Board discussions and throughout the decision-making process, with a view 
to promote the long-term sustainable success of the Balfour Beatty Group. 
Stakeholder engagement
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
128
128
Workforce engagement strategy
 
@ Topics of engagement: The Workforce 
Engagement Lead will identify annual topics 
of engagement for the Board, and keep the 
Board informed of the outcomes of engagement 
surveys and various engagement activities.
 
@ Targeted engagement: The Workforce 
Engagement Lead will conduct analysis of 
the employee base to identify which groups 
of employees should be engaged to ensure 
a good cross-representation coverage 
of the Group. 
 
@ Wider Board engagement: With the support 
and direction of the Workforce Engagement 
Lead, the wider Board will continue to conduct 
workforce engagement initiatives, for example 
through training workshops, talent activities, 
site visits, town halls and contract award meetings. 
Non-executive Directors will continue to ensure 
they devote sufficient time to engage meaningfully 
with employees, especially those from 
under-represented groups.
 
@ Board reporting: The Board receives updates 
on workforce engagement, specifically to set 
out the focused topics of engagement, the 
proposed programme of engagement activities, 
and a thematic analysis of the findings. 
Furthermore, each Director is required to 
report on insights and outcomes of their 
engagement activities at each meeting. 
 
@ Effectiveness review: The Board evaluates 
the effectiveness of workforce engagement 
on an annual basis, predominantly by:
 
– assessing the outcomes of engagement 
activities undertaken;
 
– analysing the employee engagement 
survey results and other KPIs analysing 
the workforce experience; and
 
– reviewing feedback from the workforce 
on the Board’s approach to engagement.
Key workforce engagement 
actions taken in 2024
During 2024, the Board carried out a full schedule 
of site visits and in-person engagement activities 
with an array of employees across the Group. 
These visits provided invaluable opportunities for 
the Board to gain insights into ongoing projects 
across the business, engage directly with the 
workforce, and deepen the Directors’ understanding 
of the culture of the organisation as well as 
challenges and opportunities faced by the workforce.
Leo Quinn, Philip Harrison, Louise Hardy, Gabby 
Costigan MBE, Barbara Moorhouse and former 
Independent Non-executive Director Stuart Doughty 
CMG all attended the Balfour Beatty Group’s 
Icon Awards, hosted at the V&A Museum in 
London. The Directors presented awards to 
some of the night’s winners, and took the 
opportunity to engage with employees from 
across the UK, US and Hong Kong and share 
in their success in honouring their contribution 
to the business. More information on the Icon 
Awards can be found on page 74.
The Directors visited a number of sites across 
the UK including HS2 Old Oak Common station 
and Hinkley Point C nuclear power station.
In September 2024, the Board visited Hong 
Kong, where Gammon, the Group’s 50:50 joint 
venture with Jardine Matheson, is based. They 
undertook site visits to the Hong Kong International 
Airport Terminal 2 expansion works, visiting the 
Automated People Mover and the baggage handling 
tunnels, as well as visiting the Cyberport Project 
and the Lyric Theatre project. The Board took the 
opportunity to meet with many Gammon colleagues, 
as well as representatives of Jardine, and 
Gammon’s clients. 
Following engagement activities, Board members 
report on their findings to the rest of the Board. 
Whilst undertaking engagement activities, they 
discuss and gather feedback on topics such as: 
 
@ health and safety;
 
@ environment and sustainability;
 
@ diversity and inclusion;
 
@ leadership and engagement;
 
@ culture and morale;
 
@ resources and personal development;
 
@ understanding of Group strategy, values 
and behaviours; and
 
@ Directors’ remuneration, and its alignment 
with workforce remuneration.
In addition to first-hand engagement, the Board 
obtains feedback across the breadth of the employee 
population through the employee survey. 
Both engagement tools continue to provide 
insightful data on workforce views and experiences. 
Reporting on key performance indicators such 
as voluntary attrition rates, safety observations, 
engagement, and participation rates for My 
Contribution (Balfour Beatty’s employee-led 
change programme), all help to build a strong 
picture of life as a Balfour Beatty employee and 
support robust and considered Board decision 
making that creates value for our workforce.
Investors
Investors play a valuable role in the corporate 
governance of the Company. The Board is 
committed to maintaining an open dialogue 
with its investors, which is achieved through a 
programme of structured engagement, including 
one-to-one meetings and conference attendance. 
A selection of investor events that took place in 
the year can be found within the investor 
calendar on page 131.
Institutional investors
The Group Chair, Group Chief Executive, and 
Chief Financial Officer held meetings with 
individual institutional investors throughout 2024. 
In addition, the Executive Directors conducted 
analyst presentations following the announcements 
of the Group’s financial results. 
Either on request by investors or at Company 
presentations and one-to-one meetings, 
Committee Chairs will engage with investors on 
matters specific to the remit of their respective 
Committees. The Senior Independent 
Non‑executive Director is also available to 
shareholders as a separate channel to report 
any other views or concerns. In addition, 
management engages with proxy advisory 
firms to support them in their reporting to 
their members. The outcomes of engagement 
activities are reported back to the full Board.
The Board receives biannual reports from the 
Head of Investor Relations summarising analyst 
research briefings and changes to institutional 
shareholdings, as well as ad hoc reports on share 
price movements. 
BOARD LEADERSHIP AND COMPANY PURPOSE CONTINUED
Stakeholder engagement continued
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
STRATEGIC REPORT

--- PAGE BREAK ---

129
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Engaging directly with shareholders is integral 
to effective Board decision making that promotes 
shareholder and wider stakeholder value. It provides 
an opportunity for candour, insight, and the means 
to build relationships with key shareholders. The 
Board concluded that the key benefits arising from 
its direct shareholder engagement initiatives held 
throughout the year included the opportunity to:
 
@ build transparency and trust;
 
@ provide greater clarity over Board decisions 
and the decision-making process;
 
@ showcase the Board’s skills, experience, and 
diversity, enabling shareholders to assess the 
composition and effectiveness of the Board as 
a decision-making unit; and
 
@ enhance the Board’s self-awareness and 
understanding of shareholder expectations.
Considerations following 
the 2024 AGM
Comments from shareholders at, or in relation 
to, the AGM are considered by the Board, and 
where relevant, its Committees. Following the 
2024 AGM, feedback from shareholders focused on 
the re-election of the Group Chair, who received 
85.23% votes in favour and 14.77% votes against. 
The Board acknowledges shareholders’ calls for 
a more diverse Board and has taken steps 
throughout 2024 to make progress on Board 
succession planning and recruitment:
 
@ The Board is compliant with the gender diversity 
targets set by both the FTSE Women Leaders 
Review and the Listing Rules and Disclosure 
Guidance and Transparency Rules (DTRs). 
 
@ In 2024 the Board, for the first time, complied 
with the diversity targets set by both the 
Parker Review and the Listing Rules and DTRs, 
having at least one member of the Board from 
a minority ethnic background. 
Our Icon Awards 
brought together 
almost 400 colleagues 
from the UK, the US 
and Hong Kong, to 
celebrate the very 
best of Balfour Beatty. 
It was a remarkable 
evening, and a 
wonderful reminder 
of the Company we 
are today and an 
endorsement of our 
leading place in the 
industry, the strength 
of our brand and the 
power of our culture.’’
Leo Quinn
Group Chief Executive
Make a Difference Award
This category was for an individual that makes every day 
count and makes our business better. 
Above: Award presentation photo. (Left to right) Gavin Russell, 
Chief Executive Officer – Infrastructure Investments, Jen 
Rounding-Brewin, Assistant Business Manager, Asset & 
Technology Solutions, and Louise Hardy, Balfour Beatty 
Independent Non-executive Director.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR ICON 
AWARDS EVENT ON p74
Winner: Jen Rounding-Brewin
Assistant Business Manager
Asset & Technology Solutions 
Jen supported Asset & Technology 
Solutions team with its Right to Respect roll 
out across the business – her input, time 
and effort was invaluable. She has been 
pivotal in leading monthly support calls for 
line managers, which includes pulling 
together a pack on completion stats and 
feedback from completed surveys. Jen 
excels in everything she puts her mind to 
and continues to make a difference, but this 
support has been outstanding. 
More information on Board diversity and 
inclusion can be found in the Nomination 
Committee Chair’s report on page 141.
 
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
130
130
Our approach to stakeholder engagement
Investors play a vital 
role in our corporate 
governance and hold 
the Company and its 
Directors to account. 
The Board remains 
committed to 
maintaining an open 
and honest dialogue 
with its investors.”
Charles Allen
Lord Allen of Kensington CBE
Non-executive Group Chair
STAKEHOLDER 
ENGAGEMENT
BOARD LEADERSHIP AND COMPANY PURPOSE CONTINUED
DEFINE ENGAGEMENT 
APPROACH
IDENTIFY KEY 
STAKEHOLDERS
REPORT INSIGHTS 
AND OUTCOMES
ASSESS STAKEHOLDER 
VIEWS
COMMUNICATE 
DECISIONS MADE
EMBED STAKEHOLDER 
VIEWS INTO DECISION 
MAKING
ENGAGE
Stakeholder engagement continued
Approach to shareholder 
engagement
Retail investors
The Company’s website has a section dedicated 
to investors where a range of valuable information 
can be found, including:
 
@ published Annual Reports and results 
announcements;
 
@ a financial calendar of events;
 
@ details on the Company’s corporate 
governance arrangements;
 
@ Board and Executive Committee member profiles;
 
@ the Group’s sustainability strategy, Building 
New Futures; and
 
@ regulatory news announcements.
The information available on our website enables 
retail investors to keep equally as informed as 
institutional investors. Retail investors are also 
encouraged to raise any questions or queries 
they may have with the Company Secretary, 
who will arrange for an appropriate response 
to be provided. 
Investors are consulted on an ongoing basis 
to ensure that the Group has a full and clear 
understanding of their views. 
Annual General Meeting (AGM) 
The AGM provides an opportunity for investors 
to engage directly with the Board in person. 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
STRATEGIC REPORT

--- PAGE BREAK ---

131
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
CALENDAR OF SHAREHOLDER EVENTS
January 2024
 
@ Liberum Industrials and Support 
Services Conference
March 2024
 
@ Full year results presentation
 
@ London roadshow
 
@ Berenberg UK Corporate 
Conference
 
@ Jefferies Pan-European 
Mid‑Cap Conference 
April 2024
 
@ Annual Report and Accounts 
published
 
@ Group Chair’s investor meetings
 
@ North America roadshow – 
New York, Boston, Montreal
 
@ HSBC UK Corporate & 
Investor Conference
May 2024
 
@ Annual General Meeting
 
@ Trading update
 
@ UBS Pan-European Small and 
Mid-Cap Conference
June 2024
 
@ Private client fund manager Jersey 
roadshow
 
@ Peel Hunt FTSE 250 Conference
August 2024
 
@ Half year results presentation
September 2024
 
@ UK roadshow
 
@ US virtual roadshow
 
@ Hong Kong roadshow
October 2024
 
@ Liberum fire side chat
November 2024
 
@ Private client fund manager 
roadshow – Scotland
 
@ Investec CEO conference
December 2024
 
@ Trading update
The Board joins the Gammon team to visit the expansion 
works at Hong Kong International Airport
In September 2024 the Board undertook a site 
visit to Hong Kong International Airport.
Gammon has contributed significantly to the 
expansion works at Hong Kong International 
Airport, specifically on the tunnel structure of 
the Automatic People Mover (APM), the 
Baggage Handling System (BHS) and Terminal 
2 Expansion Works projects; including the 
tunnel beneath the runway and taxiways, 
essential infrastructure for air traffic control, 
and viaduct and road systems. 
It also completed the façade and roof works 
and achieved water tightness of the Terminal 2 
building, all integral parts of the Airport 
Authority Hong Kong’s Master Programme.
The Board met with the Gammon project delivery 
team as part of their annual workforce engagement 
plan, and were able to take away key learnings 
and insights from colleagues working under 
the Hong Kong-based joint venture. 
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
132
132
The Board is the principal decision-making body 
of the Company, with authority for specific 
matters being delegated to Committees of the 
Board. Responsibility for the day-to-day operation 
of the Group is formally delegated by the Board 
to the Group Chief Executive who manages the 
operational running of the business through the 
Executive Committee. 
The members of the Executive Committee each 
have responsibility for particular Business Units 
and Enabling Functions, with authority being 
further delegated to appropriate individuals 
throughout the Group based on their role 
and seniority. 
The framework set out here provides a high-level 
summary of the Group’s governance framework, 
illustrating the flow of authority as it is delegated 
throughout the Group.
Nomination Committee
 
@ Oversees the structure and 
composition of the Board
 
@ Conducts succession planning
 
@ Oversees the appointment and 
induction processes of new Directors
 
@ Makes recommendations regarding 
Directors’ independence against 
the Code’s criteria
Remuneration Committee
 
@ Reviews the Remuneration Policy 
for Directors and Executive 
Committee members 
 
@ Approves the remuneration of 
the Group Chair, the Executive 
Directors and Executive 
Committee members 
 
@ Oversees the implementation of 
the Remuneration Policy
Audit and Risk Committee
 
@ Reviews the form, content and 
process for preparing the 
financial statements 
 
@ Reviews principal risks and internal 
controls, and the effectiveness of 
the risk management framework
 
@ Monitors the independence and 
effectiveness of the Internal Audit 
function and external auditor
Safety and Sustainability 
Committee
 
@ Reviews strategies, policies and 
performance in relation to health, 
safety and sustainability
 
@ Reviews the environmental 
impact and sustainability of 
the Group’s operations 
 
@ Reviews in detail incidents where 
significant harm has occurred
Finance and General Purposes Committee
 
@ Approves borrowings, banking arrangements, management of interest rate and 
foreign exchange rate exposures, contract financing, bonding and leasing 
matters and guarantees
Group Tender and Investment Committee
 
@ Responsible for the content, maintenance and operation of the Gated Business 
Lifecycle which forms the core process for evaluating and monitoring the 
governance of operational projects
Construction Services
 
@ Our Construction Services 
businesses operate across 
infrastructure and buildings 
markets in the UK, the US and 
through the Gammon joint venture 
in Hong Kong
Support Services
 
@ Our Support Services businesses 
operate principally in the UK, 
designing, upgrading, managing 
and maintaining critical national 
infrastructure
Enabling Functions
 
@ Bring together shared services 
(Legal, Finance, IT, Procurement, 
Communications, HR, Health, 
Safety and Wellbeing, and 
Sustainability) to support the 
delivery of business objectives
Infrastructure Investments
 
@ Our Infrastructure Investments 
business develops and finances 
both public and private infrastructure 
projects in the UK and the US
Executive Committee
 
@ The Group Chief Executive manages the operational running of the Group through the Executive Committee, members of which are responsible for particular Business Units 
and Enabling Functions. The Executive Committee oversees the implementation of Group strategy, and matters relating to health and safety, sustainability, employee matters 
(including succession and remuneration), legal and governance, technology and innovation, and communications and investor relations
 
@ Responsibility for the day-to-day running of each of the Strategic Business Units and enabling functions is delegated to individual members of the Executive Committee
Balfour Beatty plc Board of Directors
 
@ Establishes the Company’s strategic direction, 
purpose and values
 
@ Assesses and monitors Company culture and 
promotes the long-term success of the Company
 
@ Approves the Company’s financial statements 
and budget
 
@ Ensures maintenance of a framework of prudent 
and effective controls
 
@ Ensures effective engagement with stakeholders 
including employees 
 
@ Approves matters relating to the composition 
of the Board and Committees
A robust 
governance 
framework
DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES
SCAN OR CLICK TO VIEW THE MATTERS 
RESERVED FOR THE BOARD AND BOARD 
COMMITTEE TERMS OF REFERENCE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
STRATEGIC REPORT

--- PAGE BREAK ---

133
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
This section sets out the defined roles 
and responsibilities of Board members 
and outlines the support the Directors 
receive to assist them in discharging 
their duties in accordance with the 
Companies Act, and their 
responsibilities under the UK 
Corporate Governance Code.
Role of the Board 
In accordance with Principle A of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, the primary role of the Board is to 
effectively lead the Group by promoting the long-term 
sustainable success of the Company, generating 
value for shareholders and contributing to wider society. 
Each Director has a defined role with individual 
duties, with a clear division of responsibilities, 
particularly between the Group Chair (leadership 
of the Board) and the Group Chief Executive 
(leadership of the Company’s business). The 
balance of responsibilities at Board level set out 
here supports a balanced approach to decision 
making, ensuring that no one individual has 
unfettered powers.
Throughout the year the Board met sufficiently 
frequently to fully discharge its duties. The Board 
held eight scheduled meetings in the year, as well 
as ad hoc and Board sub-committee meetings to 
manage matters arising outside the formal schedule 
of meetings. 
Time commitment of Directors 
The Board recognises the importance of individual 
members having sufficient time to discharge 
their duties effectively. On an annual basis, each 
Director declares their external appointments and 
commitments to the Board as part of the conflicts 
of interest declaration. Any additional external 
appointments are subject to Board approval 
in order to mitigate the risk of overboarding 
and ensure they do not impact the capacity of 
Directors to discharge their duties.
Leadership
Oversight
Governance
Independent Non-executive Director meetings
The Independent Non-executive Directors, led by the Group Chair, hold regular scheduled meetings without the executive Directors present prior to, or following 
Board meetings. The Independent Non-executive Directors meet annually, led by the Senior Independent Non-executive Director and without the Group Chair 
present, as part of the Board effectiveness review to discuss the Group Chair’s performance.
Company Secretary 
The Board is supported by the Company Secretary who, in accordance with Principle I of the UK Corporate Governance Code, ensures that the Board is able to 
function effectively and efficiently, and is available to all Directors, maintaining dialogue with each of them on an individual basis.
In addition to providing logistical support for Board and Committee meetings, the Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on all corporate 
governance matters, supporting the annual Board effectiveness review, managing policies and processes related to the Board, supporting induction and ongoing 
training and development of the Directors, and ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, timely information required for them to discharge their duties. 
Senior Independent Non-executive 
Director
 
@ Acts as sounding board for the Group Chair
 
@ Assumes the role of intermediary for the Group 
Chief Executive, non-executive Directors and 
shareholders as required 
 
@ Leads the review of the Group Chair’s performance
 
@ Chairs the Nomination Committee when the Group 
Chair’s succession is considered
 
@ Available to meet with shareholders
Workforce Engagement Lead 
 
@ Oversees and monitors the workforce 
engagement strategy 
 
@ Identifies topics of engagement for Board approval
 
@ Conducts ongoing analysis of the employee base 
to identify targeted engagement activities
 
@ Provides opportunity for two-way feedback from 
the workforce
Independent Non-executive 
Directors
 
@ Oversee the Company’s strategy and provide 
guidance and expert advice to management
 
@ Monitor Group performance against objectives, 
and hold management to account
 
@ Review management proposals
 
@ Provide constructive challenge to management
 
@ Serve on Board Committees which are responsible 
for specified governance roles
Group Chief Executive
 
@ Responsible for the day-to-day 
management of the Group and the 
Group’s performance
 
@ Enables planning and execution of the 
Company’s strategy, purpose and values 
set by the Board 
 
@ Leads the Group
 
@ Drives the cultural tone of the Group
 
@ Ensures the Board is kept abreast of the 
views of the workforce, and any 
divergent views amongst members of 
the Executive Committee
Non-executive Group Chair
 
@ Leads the Board and demonstrates 
objective judgement
 
@ Encourages high standards of 
corporate governance 
 
@ Sets the Board agenda and drives 
Board effectiveness 
 
@ Promotes a culture of constructive 
debate, mutual respect and openness
 
@ Ensures that Directors receive 
accurate, timely and clear information
 
@ Leads shareholder and wider 
stakeholder engagement 
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
134
134
The Company is listed on the London Stock 
Exchange and is therefore subject to the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. A copy of the 
Code can be found on the FRC’s website at: 
www.frc.org.uk.
  
THE COMPANY’S COMPLIANCE 
WITH THE CODE IS SET OUT ON 
PAGE 119
The Board
The role of the Board is summarised on page 
132. Principally, the Board establishes the strategic 
direction of the Group and assesses the basis 
upon which the Company sustainably generates 
and preserves value over the long term. The 
Board also sets and monitors culture and leads 
by example to set the right cultural tone from 
the top as to how the Company will achieve its 
strategic goals and purpose.
The Group’s governance framework is designed 
to facilitate effective, resilient and prudent 
management of the business, which helps 
to ensure that the Board’s decision making is 
considered, long term in its nature, and takes 
into account the desirability of maintaining high 
standards of business conduct and the need to 
act fairly between members.
One of the primary responsibilities of the Board 
is to ensure that the Company preserves value 
over the long term in a sustainable manner, 
taking into consideration both value derived for 
the Company’s stakeholders and the Company’s 
contribution to wider society. In setting, monitoring 
and delivering the Group’s Build to Last strategy, 
and its drive towards the targets and ambitions 
outlined in the Building New Futures sustainability 
strategy, the Board ensures that risks and 
opportunities facing the Group are identified and, 
where appropriate, mitigated appropriately. 
SCAN OR CLICK TO REVIEW 
MATTERS RESERVED FOR 
THE BOARD 
Board and Committee meetings 
The Group Chair sets a structured agenda for 
each Board meeting in consultation with the 
Group Chief Executive and Company Secretary. 
Capacity is maintained on the agenda for each 
meeting to allow for the timely consideration of 
matters as they arise during the year. The Group 
Chair seeks a consensus at Board meetings, but, 
if necessary, decisions are taken by majority. 
If any Director has concerns on any issues that 
cannot be resolved, such concerns are noted 
in the Board minutes. No such concerns arose 
in 2024. 
The key activities of the Board in 2024 are 
detailed on pages 124 and 125. These activities 
are discussed under the value pillars of Lean, 
Expert, Trusted, Safe and Sustainable which 
underpin the Board’s decision-making process.
As referenced above, the Board has a formal 
schedule of matters reserved for its decision 
making and has delegated certain responsibilities 
to Board Committees, each with separate Terms 
of Reference. There are four main Board Committees: 
Audit and Risk, Nomination, Remuneration, and 
Safety and Sustainability. The principal activities 
of each Committee during the year are set out in 
the Committee reports on pages 140, 144, 146, 
and 153. 
DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES CONTINUED
Corporate governance framework
The Company’s governance framework operates to support the delivery of 
its strategy by ensuring that business is conducted within a framework of 
robust principles and procedures and in an orderly fashion. 
The Group Chair encourages all Directors to 
attend all Committee meetings, with the 
exception of instances where there is a conflict 
of interest. Additional attendees are invited to 
attend Board and Committee meetings at the 
discretion of the relevant Chair. 
Risk and internal control
Risk management 
The Board is responsible for undertaking a robust 
assessment of the principal risks facing the 
Group, as described on pages 94 to 105 of the 
Strategic report, and ensuring that appropriate 
mitigating actions are in place to manage them. 
This includes those risks that would threaten the 
Group’s business model, future performance, 
solvency and liquidity. 
The Group’s approach to risk management, 
described in more detail on pages 89 to 105, 
ensures that principal and emerging risks to the 
Group’s objectives are identified, assessed, and 
managed on an ongoing basis. 
The Business Management System (BMS), which 
forms the basis of the Group’s internal control 
framework, contains all policies, procedures and 
controls. The BMS is regularly updated to reflect 
the output and effectiveness of risk and assurance 
activity to ensure that there is continuous 
improvement to the control environment.
Internal control 
The Board has overall responsibility for the 
Group’s systems of risk management and internal 
control and regularly reviews their effectiveness. 
The Audit and Risk Committee has undertaken 
this review throughout the financial year. Further 
details can be found on page 152 of the Audit 
and Risk Committee report.
The Group uses the Enterprise Risk Management 
framework across the business to ensure 
consistency in application of risk systems and 
controls and that exposure to significant risks is 
managed effectively. The Board is cognisant of 
the fact that such a system can only manage 
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve 
business objectives and can only provide reasonable, 
but not absolute, assurance against material 
misstatement or loss. 
The Group’s independent Internal Audit function 
undertakes an annual programme of risk-based 
audits across the Group’s operations. All audit 
reports are shared with the relevant business unit 
management who are accountable for implementing 
appropriate measures to address any risks or 
control weaknesses. The results of key internal 
audit activities are shared with the Group Chief 
Executive, Chief Financial Officer, and external 
auditor and scrutinised by the Audit and Risk 
Committee on a regular basis. Further details 
can be found on pages 146 to 152 of the Audit 
and Risk Committee report.
Throughout 2024, in accordance with the new 
requirements set out under Provision 29 of the 
updated 2024 UK Corporate Governance Code, 
the Audit and Risk Committee has overseen the 
continued development of a matured Internal 
Control Framework (ICF) which comprises the 
Group’s material controls, including financial, 
operational, reporting and compliance controls. 
Throughout the year, key activities have included: 
 
@ collation of the Group’s key controls from 
various sources across the Group;
 
@ validation of the controls with key stakeholders 
throughout the Group;
 
@ a review to assess which of the controls are 
material; and 
 
@ an initial year end self-assessment of material 
controls within the updated framework.
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
STRATEGIC REPORT

--- PAGE BREAK ---

135
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Responsibilities
Actions undertaken
BOARD
 
@ Establishment of a framework of 
prudent and effective controls to 
enable risk to be assessed, monitored 
and mitigated
 
@ Determine Group appetite for and 
attitude to risk in pursuit of its 
strategic objectives
 
@ Reviewed the Group’s risk landscape profile, principal 
and emerging risks, and required responses
 
@ Reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s 
whistleblowing (Speak Up) processes and 
procedures, and other channels for raising 
concerns about Code of Ethics breaches
AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE
 
@ Review significant accounting 
judgements
 
@ Review the effectiveness of Group 
internal controls, including systems 
to identify, assess, manage and 
monitor risks
 
@ Review and assess the effectiveness 
of the Internal Audit function, and the 
Internal Audit workplan
 
@ Received regular reports on internal and external 
audit and other assurance activities
 
@ Reviewed the effectiveness of Group risk 
management and internal control systems
 
@ Oversaw the ongoing implementation of a matured 
Internal Control Framework (ICF)
SAFETY AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE
 
@ Review main risks in relation to health 
safety, and wellbeing and the Group’s 
overall sustainability
 
@ Received regular reports on risks in relation to safety
 
@ Received regular risk reports on matters impacting 
the environment 
GROUP TENDER AND INVESTMENT COMMITTEE
 
@ Review and approve tenders and 
investments, triggered by certain 
financial thresholds or other risk factors
 
@ Critically appraised significant tender and investment/
divestment proposals, with a specific focus on risk
Risk management: responsibilities and actions
Responsibilities
Actions undertaken
GROUP MANAGEMENT
 
@ Strategic leadership
 
@ Review and implementation of the 
Group risk management policy
 
@ Ensure appropriate actions are taken 
to manage strategic risks and other 
key risks
 
@ Reviewed the strategic plan and annual budget process
 
@ Produced and monitored Group risk register
 
@ Reviewed risk management and assurance activities 
and processes
 
@ Monthly/quarterly finance and performance reviews
STRATEGIC BUSINESS UNIT MANAGEMENT
 
@ Maintain an effective system of risk 
management and internal control 
within its businesses
 
@ Ensure that business units’ 
responsibilities are discharged
 
@ Reviewed key risks and mitigation plans
 
@ Reviewed and challenged Business Units’ internal 
control environment
 
@ Reviewed results of internal control testing
 
@ Escalated key risks to Group management and 
the Board
ENABLING FUNCTION MANAGEMENT
 
@ Maintain an effective system of risk 
management and internal control 
within its enabling functions
 
@ Maintained and regularly reviewed enabling function 
risk registers
 
@ Reviewed mitigation plans
 
@ Planned, executed and reported on internal control testing
 
@ Escalated key risks to Group management and the Board
BUSINESS UNIT MANAGEMENT
 
@ Maintain a robust and effective 
system of risk management and 
internal control within its business 
units and projects
 
@ Maintained and regularly reviewed Business Unit and 
project risk registers
 
@ Reviewed mitigation plans
 
@ Planned, executed and reported on internal control testing
 
@ Escalated key risks to Strategic Business 
Unit management
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
136
136
COMPOSITION, SUCCESSION AND EVALUATION
The Board’s cognitive diversity fosters insightful 
and constructive debate, which in turn leads to 
considered, balanced and risk-adjusted decision 
making that promotes long-term shareholder and 
stakeholder value.
The Board’s diverse array of technical skills, 
experience, and balance of independence, 
fosters creative thinking and innovative problem 
solving, which facilitates the Board’s ability to 
convert risks into opportunities.
The range of skills and experience within the 
Board is demonstrated in the skills matrix opposite, 
which was produced by Egon Zehnder as part of 
the 2024 external Board performance review. 
Rudy Wynter, who joined the Board on the 
1 December 2024, did not take part in the 2024 
Board performance review given his very limited 
time in role when the review was undertaken 
(and hence is not included in the skills matrix 
opposite). Rudy has extensive experience in the 
development and construction of large-scale 
complex engineering and capital energy projects, 
making him a strong new addition to the Board.
As at 31 December 2024, the Board consisted 
of 10 members, comprising the Non-executive 
Group Chair, two Executive Directors, the Senior 
Independent Non-executive Director, and six 
further Independent Non-executive Directors. 
Biographies of the Board Directors are set out 
on pages 120 and 121.
Maintaining an 
appropriate balance
The Board diversified its composition in 2024 to ensure that it remained appropriately 
balanced, representative of the workforce, and fully equipped with the skills and 
knowledge to promote the long-term sustainable success of the Group.
KEY SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE OF DIRECTORS
Skills and 
experience
Non-executives
Executives
Charles 
Allen
Barbara 
Moorhouse
Michael 
Lucki
Anne 
Drinkwater
Louise 
Hardy
Robert 
MacLeod
Gabby 
Costigan
Leo 
Quinn
Philip 
Harrison
CAPEX heavy 
organisations
Major 
contracting
Risk 
management
People & 
remuneration
Finance & Audit
UK market 
experience
Health & Safety
Government 
engagement
Construction 
sector
CEO experience
ESG
US market 
experience
Hong Kong 
market 
experience
Digital & 
Technology
 Expert 
 Advanced 
 General 
 Limited
Conflicts of interest 
and independence 
The Board has a number of processes and 
procedures in place to assess conflicts of interest 
and the independence of Non-executive Directors 
against the criteria set out in the Code:
 
@ each Director has a duty to disclose any actual 
or potential conflict of interest for consideration 
and approval, if appropriate, by the Board; 
 
@ Directors are requested to declare any conflicts 
at the start of all Board and Committee meetings;
 
@ the Nomination Committee conducts an annual 
review of the Conflicts of Interest Register and 
seeks confirmation from each Director of any 
changes to their external appointments; and
 
@ there is also a formal process in place for the 
approval of all new external appointments of 
Directors. In considering such appointments, 
the Board will consider any conflicts of interest 
that may arise, as well as the Directors’ capacity 
to continue discharging their duties effectively 
in order to mitigate the risk of overboarding.
The Nomination Committee and the Board have, 
after completing all of the processes detailed 
above, confirmed the continuing independence 
and objective judgement of each Independent 
Non-executive Director, and the overall 
independence of the Board in line with 
the recommendations of the Code.
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
STRATEGIC REPORT

--- PAGE BREAK ---

137
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
The Board is compliant 
with the diversity targets 
set by both the Parker 
Review and the FTSE 
Women Leaders Review.”
Charles Allen 
Lord Allen of Kensington CBE
Non-executive Group Chair
Board succession
Board and Executive Committee succession 
plans are based on merit and assessed against 
objective criteria, whilst also being managed 
through the lens of promoting cognitive diversity 
as well as diversity of gender, ethnicity, experience 
and skills. Succession plans are reviewed 
annually by the Nomination Committee. Each 
individual on the succession plan has a development 
plan in place to support their personal and 
professional development. 
At the conclusion of the 2024 AGM, Dr Stephen 
Billingham CBE and Stuart Doughty CMG retired 
as Independent Non-executive Directors having 
served nine years on the Board. Succession 
planning and the review of Board composition 
resulted in the appointment of Robert MacLeod 
and Gabby Costigan MBE as Independent 
Non-executive Directors from 8 March 2024. 
Further to this, the Board recruited Rudy Wynter 
on 1 December 2024 as an Independent 
Non-executive Director. For further information 
on the newly appointed Directors, please refer 
to their introductory Q&A on pages 122 and 123.
The Board is compliant with the diversity targets 
for gender and ethnic minority board representation 
set by the FTSE Women Leaders Review and the 
Parker Review. We are delighted that the boardroom 
in 2024 and 2025 is now more representative of 
our workforce, our clients and our supply chains, 
and the Nomination Committee will maintain its 
focused oversight of diversity and inclusion 
initiatives across the Group to ensure that all 
employees are afforded the opportunity to 
succeed at Balfour Beatty. 
The Board is also committed to supporting and 
developing a diverse pipeline of candidates for 
senior manager and subsidiary director roles 
within the Group. For further information on 
active diversity initiatives within the Group 
please refer to pages 72 and 73.
Director reappointment
All Independent Non-executive Directors undertake 
a fixed term of three years subject to annual 
re-election by shareholders. The fixed term can 
be extended and, consistent with best practice, 
would not go beyond nine years unless exceptional 
circumstances were deemed to exist. The current 
tenure of each Board members are included within 
their biographies on pages 120 and 121.
Training and development
The Board receives a full programme of briefings 
and updates annually across all areas of the 
Company’s business from the executive Directors, 
members of the Executive Committee, senior 
executives, and advisers. In addition, training and 
development sessions are arranged on specific 
areas during the year as required. Examples of 
training and development in 2024 included, 
amongst others, sustainability, corporate governance, 
digital and cyber security, contract trends, and the 
infrastructure financing landscape. 
Any Director can request further information to 
support the fulfilment of their individual duties or 
collective Board role and, throughout the year, 
the Group Chair maintains dialogue with individual 
Directors to identify any specific training requirements. 
Where appropriate, such training is integrated 
into Board meetings to ensure all Directors can 
benefit. Alternatively, training sessions may be 
conducted through formal presentations, 
one-on-one meetings, or site visits, providing 
opportunities to delve deeper into specific 
initiatives or projects. 
Information and support
During the year, the Company Secretary advised 
the Board on matters related to governance, 
ensuring Board procedures were followed and 
relevant statutory and regulatory requirements 
were complied with. The Company Secretary has 
responsibility for facilitating the timely distribution 
of information between the Board and its 
Committees and the Board of Directors.
The Directors have direct access to the Company 
Secretary for advice, who can arrange, at the 
Company’s expense, for the Directors to receive 
independent professional advice where appropriate. 
Board performance review
In line with best practice, the performance and 
effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and 
individual Directors are assessed annually via a 
formal performance review. The Board and 
Committee performance review process follows a 
three-year cycle, with the 2024 Board performance 
review being undertaken externally in accordance 
with the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
Process – Board and Committee 
performance review
Egon Zehnder was appointed to conduct the 
external Board performance review. They 
commenced the review by meeting with the 
Group Chair and the Company Secretary to 
review the results and actions undertaken by 
the two previous internal Board performance 
reviews, to understand the context, strategy and 
purpose of the Board, and agree the scope for 
the 2024 Board performance review. Following 
this, Egon Zehnder proposed to undertake the 
review through a combination of:
 
@ quantitative insights (with data obtained from 
questionnaires completed by each Board member);
 
@ qualitative insights (through observations of 
Board and Board committee meetings, as well 
as one-to-one meetings with the Group Chair, 
the Board of Directors and the Company 
Secretary); and
 
@ a review of the quality and timeliness of Board 
and Committee packs.
Egon Zehnder presented the results of their 
review to the Board in February 2025, together 
with a series of recommendations to enhance 
the Board’s effectiveness. 
The scope of the performance review
The external review included a review of:
 
@ the performance and effectiveness of the 
Group Chair; 
 
@ the performance and contribution of each 
of the Board’s Directors;
 
@ the performance and contribution of the 
Company Secretary;
 
@ the composition and balance of skills, 
experience and knowledge across the Board, 
and within each of the Board’s Committees; 
 
@ the performance and effectiveness of the 
Board, and each of its Committees; and
 
@ the quality and timeliness of Board 
and Committee packs. 
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
138
138
COMPOSITION, SUCCESSION AND EVALUATION CONTINUED
Board performance review process
 
@ Evaluation co-ordinated internally by 
Group Chair, Committee Chairs and 
Company Secretary
 
@ Separate questionnaires prepared 
on a range of issues related to the 
Board and Board Committees
 
@ One-to-one meetings held between 
Group Chair and each Director to 
review responses and for individual 
appraisal. The Senior Independent 
Non-executive Director leads the 
review of the Group Chair 
 
@ Group discussion at a Board 
meeting and actions agreed
 
@ Outcomes from previous 
performance review and progress 
against each action reviewed
 
@ Internal evaluation questionnaires 
prepared by Group Chair and 
Company Secretary, taking account 
of areas of concern in previous year
 
@ One-to-one meetings held between 
Group Chair and each Director to 
review responses and for individual 
appraisal. Senior Independent 
Non-executive Director leads the 
review of the Group Chair 
 
@ Group discussion at a Board 
meeting and actions agreed
 
@ Independent external performance 
reviewer appointed (Egon Zehnder)
 
@ Performance reviewer works with 
the Group Chair to define the scope 
of review
 
@ Review conducted by means of 
questionnaires and interviews with 
Board Directors, observations of 
Board meetings, and a review of 
Board and Committee packs 
 
@ Report on review discussed with 
Group Chair and tabled for 
discussion at a Board meeting
 
@ Outcomes and actions agreed
Year 1 
(2022)
Internal 
assessment
Year 2 
(2023)
Internal 
assessment
Year 3 
(2024)
External 
assessment
Board performance review continued
Findings
The findings of the external performance review 
concluded that the Board and Committees 
continued to function effectively. The review 
identified the following strengths:
 
@ business performance: the Group’s 
consistent strong performance since Egon 
Zehnder’s previous 2021 external performance 
review (reflected in the share price) is the 
result of a strong leadership from both the 
Board and management;
 
@ Board composition: new hires in 2024 have 
enriched the Board’s overall skill set and 
diversity of perspectives in the boardroom;
 
@ Board efficiency: Board and Committee 
meetings are efficient, striking the right 
balance between presentations and 
discussion; and
 
@ Board culture: the Board’s open and 
honest culture promotes constructive 
debate and challenge. 
Performance action plan and progress 
Led by the Group Chair, with support from the 
Company Secretary, the Board approved and 
implemented a 2025 action plan to address the 
findings of the 2024 external Board performance 
review. A summary of the key actions can be 
found on page 139.
Complementing this, is a summary of the action 
plan from the previous internal performance 
review undertaken in 2023, which includes a 
summary of the key recommendations, agreed 
actions, and the progress and outcomes 
delivered in 2024. 
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
STRATEGIC REPORT

--- PAGE BREAK ---

139
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
2024 BOARD PERFORMANCE REVIEW ACTION PLAN
2023 Recommendations
2024 Action Plan
Actions Taken / Outcomes 
Ensure continued 
improvements in information 
gathering relating to strategy, 
competitors, and 
addressable markets.
 
@ Continue to enhance the strategic review of the Group.
 
@ Carry out an annual competitor and industry update.
 
@ Consider addressable markets as appropriate.
The Board received industry and competitor updates to support the monitoring of the Group’s Build 
to Last strategy.
Support initiatives on 
employee engagement.
 
@ Independent Non-executive Directors to attend ad hoc meetings 
of the Group Tender and Investment Committee (GTIC) 
throughout 2024.
 
@ Independent Non-executive Directors to attend at least two site visits 
per year.
The following Independent Non-executive Directors attended GTICs throughout 2024 to give them 
visibility and an understanding of the tender process for large-scale projects, and the opportunity to 
engage with project delivery teams across the Group:
 
@ Anne Drinkwater (attended 16)
 
@ Michael Lucki, Robert MacLeod, Louise Hardy (each attended 2); and
 
@ Barbara Moorhouse and Gabby Costigan (each attended 1).
The Board also undertook a programme of thematic workforce engagement initiatives, including site 
visits throughout 2024, please see page 128 for more detail. 
Support Board and talent 
development and 
succession.
 
@ Carry out a skills and experience review of the Board.
 
@ Carry out a talent review of the Executive Directors, Executive 
Committee members and other senior managers as appropriate.
 
@ Continue to monitor succession plans for the Executive 
Directors, Executive Committee members and other senior 
managers as appropriate.
The Board undertook a full skills and experience review as part of the external Board performance 
review with Egon Zehnder, following which the Board have agreed to undertake a number of actions 
to enhance Board effectiveness in 2025 (see 2025 action plan below). 
Succession planning and a talent review of the Executive Committee and business-critical senior 
management was undertaken in November 2024 by the Nominations Committee. The review set out 
a pipeline of talent for business-critical roles, and detailed tailored plans to support key staff in their 
ascension of the career ladder at Balfour Beatty. 
Progress the diversity 
and inclusion agenda for 
the Group.
 
@ Regularly monitor the diversity and inclusion performance of the 
Group and set a plan to address the gender and ethnicity diversity on 
the Board, its Committees, the Executive Committee, and across 
the wider Group.
Board succession planning and recruitment in 2024 has enabled the Board to comply with the diversity 
targets set by the FTSE Women Leaders Review and the Parker Review. The Board also oversees and 
monitors the performance of Group diversity and inclusion initiatives. 
2024 Recommendations
2025 Action Plan
Enhance the succession 
planning processes.
 
@ Consider how to enhance internal candidates by considering opportunities for individuals to move into stretch roles.
 
@ Allow and encourage the Board to have greater visibility and exposure to the layers below the Executive Committee.
 
@ Encourage increased opportunities for senior managers to present to the Board.
 
@ Consider how strategy impacts the structure and capabilities of the management team.
Allocate more time for 
strategy to be considered 
by the Board.
 
@ Increase the opportunities for strategy to be considered by the Board.
 
@ Provide more time for blue sky, longer-term, top-down thinking separate to the business planning processes.
Review processes for the 
Board monitoring project 
performance.
 
@ Agree what operational and project reporting is required by the Board.
 
@ Continue to encourage Independent Non-executive Directors to attend GTIC meetings (where the bid amount is below the £1 billion threshold normally required for Non-executive attendance).
 
@ Continue to hone the orientation and onboarding process for new Independent Non-executive Directors and encourage site visits to accelerate industry learning.
 
@ Consider how to use remuneration metrics to enhance performance and improve retention.
Clarify rules of engagement 
in Committee meetings.
 
@ Clarify rules of engagement of non-committee members during committee meetings and decision-making responsibility.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
140
140
Nomination 
Committee
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Report of the Nomination Committee
I am pleased to present the report of 
the Nomination Committee, setting 
out the key activities undertaken 
throughout 2024 and the priorities 
for 2025. 
During the year, the Committee continued to 
focus on the long-term succession planning for 
the Board, its Committees, and the Executive 
Committee. The Committee remained mindful of 
the importance of diversity within the Board, its 
Committees and senior management, and the 
recommendations set out in the FTSE Women 
Leaders Review, the Parker Review, and the 
diversity criteria set out in the Listing Rules. 
The Board underwent a number of changes in 
the first half of 2024:
 
@ at the conclusion of the 2024 AGM, Dr 
Stephen Billingham CBE and Stuart Doughty 
CMG both retired;
 
@ with the support of executive search firm, 
Odgers Berndtson, Robert MacLeod and 
Gabby Costigan MBE were appointed as 
Independent Non-executive Directors on 
8 March 2024; 
 
@ Robert MacLeod was appointed as Chair of 
the Audit and Risk Committee, and Gabby 
Costigan MBE was appointed as Chair of the 
Safety and Sustainability Committee; and
 
@ Anne Drinkwater was appointed as the Senior 
Independent Non-executive Director. 
Following the above changes to the Board’s 
composition, together with the results of the 
2023 internal Board performance review, the key 
priorities of the Nomination Committee in 2024 were:
 
@ to support the induction of Robert MacLeod 
and Gabby Costigan MBE, and ensure both 
Directors received a comprehensive handover 
from their respective predecessors; 
 
@ to support Anne Drinkwater’s induction 
into her new role of Senior Independent 
Non-executive Director;
 
@ to establish a separate working group to 
identify a shortlist of candidates for a new 
Independent Non-executive Director role; and
 
@ undertake succession planning and a talent 
review of the Board, Executive Committee, 
senior management, and business-critical 
project leaders.
The search for a new Independent 
Non-executive Director
A separate offline working group was established 
to identify a shortlist of candidates for a new 
Independent Non-executive Director role. The 
working group was comprised of the Chair of 
the Nomination Committee, the Group Human 
Resources Director, and executive search firm 
Heidrick & Struggles. The independent and 
impartial search process focused on addressing 
skills and knowledge gaps on the Board to deliver 
against the Group’s Build to Last strategy. It also 
considered Board and Board Committee 
composition, balance of skills and diversity of 
perspectives. The search concluded with the 
appointment of Rudolph (Rudy) Wynter, who 
joined the Board on 1 December 2024. 
Rudy brings with him a wealth of knowledge 
and experience obtained from his long and 
illustrious career at National Grid New York, 
where he retired as President and Chief 
Executive of National Grid plc in September 
2024. Rudy’s background in mechanical 
MEMBERSHIP
Charles Allen (Committee Chair)
Anne Drinkwater
Robert MacLeod
Barbara Moorhouse
KEY ACTIONS FROM 2024
 
@ Completed a search for two new 
Independent Non-executive Directors in 
Q1 (Robert MacLeod and Gabby 
Costigan).
 
@ Completed a search for a new 
Independent Non-executive Director in Q4 
(Rudy Wynter).
 
@ Oversaw the induction programmes for 
the newly appointed Directors.
 
@ Reviewed Board balance, composition 
and diversity.
 
@ Reviewed succession plans for the 
Board, its Committees and the 
Executive Committee.
PRIORITIES FOR 2025
 
@ Review the Board’s succession plans.
 
@ Review the Executive Committee’s 
succession plans and the progress of 
professional development programmes 
underway to support a diverse pipeline 
of candidates.
 
@ Oversee the induction of Rudy Wynter.
 
@ Review Board balance, composition and 
diversity against the short, medium and 
long-term needs of the Company.
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
STRATEGIC REPORT

--- PAGE BREAK ---

141
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
OF THE COMMITTEE
 
@ Make recommendations to the Board 
on the appointment, reappointment, 
retirement or continuation of any Director.
 
@ Propose and oversee induction plans 
for newly appointed Board members.
 
@ Make recommendations regarding 
Directors’ independence.
 
@ Monitor the balance, composition, 
diversity, structure, and size of the 
Board and Committees.
 
@ Conduct and monitor Board and Executive 
Committee succession planning.
Main activities of the Committee during the year
Committee composition
The Committee comprises of two Independent 
Non-executive Directors, the Senior Independent 
Non-executive Director, and the Non-executive 
Group Chair. 
Board composition and succession
Board composition is shaped and informed by:
 
@ succession planning activities undertaken by 
the Committee;
 
@ ongoing assessments of the skills, experience 
and diversity required on the Board to deliver 
against the Group’s strategy, purpose and values;
 
@ insights derived from the Board performance 
review; and
 
@ shareholder feedback.
The perspectives, skills and experience on the 
Board are mapped to the needs of the business 
and aligned to the Group’s strategy, purpose and 
values. The Committee considers the length of 
service of the members of the Board as a whole, 
as well as the need for the Board to remain agile 
and responsive to the evolving needs of the 
Group and an ever-changing external environment. 
Biographies of the Directors who served 
throughout 2024, including details of their 
backgrounds and experience, can be found 
on pages 120 and 121.
Time commitment
The anticipated time commitments of the Group 
Chair and Independent Non-executive Directors 
are agreed and set out in their respective letters 
of appointment. To ensure each Director has 
sufficient time to conduct their duties effectively, 
and mitigate the risk of Director overboarding, the 
Committee takes the following preventative steps:
 
@ prior to appointment, the Committee considers 
and assesses any existing external commitments 
on an individual’s time. This is necessary to 
confirm their capacity to take on the role 
and discharge their duties effectively; and
 
@ any additional external appointments are 
subject to Board approval to ensure Directors 
can continue to devote the necessary time to 
their duties. 
Committee performance review
In 2024, the Board and its Committees 
undertook an external performance review led 
by Egon Zehnder. For more information on the 
scope and outcomes of the review, please refer 
to pages 137 to 139. 
Election and re-election of Directors
All Independent Non-executive Directors 
undertake a fixed term of three years, subject to 
annual re-election by shareholders at the AGM. 
The fixed term can be extended, but would not 
normally exceed nine years, unless the Board 
deemed there to be exceptional circumstances 
that merit an extension beyond nine years. 
Governance
In 2024 the Committee reviewed and updated its 
terms of reference. 
engineering and his experience in strategic 
planning and leadership at National Grid has no 
doubt strengthened the Board’s capability to 
deliver against our Build to Last strategy at a 
time where the UK energy market is transitioning 
towards electric and renewable technologies. 
For more information on the newly appointed 
Independent Non-executive Directors, please 
refer to their introductory Q&A on pages 122 
and 123.
Diversity and inclusion on the Board
The Board is compliant with the gender diversity 
targets set by both the FTSE Women Leaders 
Review, and the Listing Rules and Disclosure 
Guidance & Transparency Rules (DTRs). 
The Balfour Beatty Board is also compliant 
with the recommendations set by the Parker 
Review and the Listing Rules and DTRs to 
have at least one Board Director from an ethnic 
minority background. 
The Committee continues to actively enhance 
diversity through the Group’s ongoing succession 
planning of both the Board and senior management. 
Robert, Gabby and Rudy have all been welcome 
additions to the Board in 2024, all utilising their 
experience and skills to provide fresh ideas and 
meaningful contributions to the Board and their 
respective Committees. This was emphasised in 
the findings of the Board’s external performance 
review, which concluded that Board recruitment 
in 2024 had enhanced the diversity of perspectives 
within the boardroom, and in turn promoted 
constructive debate and challenge.
I would like to thank the Committee and the 
wider Board for their support and engagement 
with succession planning and recruitment 
throughout 2024. 
Charles Allen
Chair of the Nomination Committee
11 March 2025
ALLOCATION 
OF TIME
 
Performance, balance and 
composition reviews
50%
 
Governance and other matters
50%
SCAN OR CLICK TO VIEW THE 
NOMINATION COMMITTEE’S 
TERMS OF REFERENCE
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
142
142
COMMITTEE REPORTS CONTINUED
Main activities of the 
Committee during the year 
continued
Election and re-election of Directors 
continued
Following this review and considerations of the 
Directors’ tenure, the Committee unanimously 
recommends the re-election of each of Charles 
Allen, Leo Quinn, Philip Harrison, Anne Drinkwater, 
Louise Hardy, Michael Lucki, Barbara Moorhouse, 
Robert MacLeod, and Gabby Costigan at the 
2025 AGM; and the election of Rudy Wynter 
following his appointment on 1 December 2024. 
Diversity and inclusion
As Balfour Beatty continues to navigate through 
macroeconomic headwinds, an ever-changing 
risk environment, and the global challenge to 
achieve net zero and operational sustainability, 
the Board needs to ensure it has the right balance 
of skills, experience, and perspectives in the 
boardroom to face those challenges head on. 
Therefore, diversity must be embraced and 
embedded into the business, and that starts 
with the Board. While diversity is a key factor, 
the Board continues to appoint on merit, 
based on the skills and experience required 
for membership, while considering all forms 
of diversity and independence. 
In February 2025, the Committee recommended 
the Board Diversity and Inclusion Policy for 
approval by the Board in compliance with Disclosure 
and Transparency Rule 7.2.8AR. The updated 
policy applies specifically to the Board and its 
Committees. The policy codifies the Group’s 
ultimate goal of obtaining female and male parity 
on the Board and its Committees and its goal 
of having no less than 40% male or female 
representation and having a Director from an 
ethnic minority background on the Board, while 
recognising that periods of transition and change 
in Board composition may result in temporary 
periods when this balance is not achieved. 
Further to this, the Committee will regularly 
review the structure, size and composition 
of the Board and its Committees, and make 
recommendations to the Board with regard 
to changes that are deemed necessary. 
The Board’s definition of diversity covers gender, 
ethnicity, and age (as well as other protected 
characteristics set out by the 2010 Equalities Act).
Gender diversity 
As at 31 December 2024, Balfour Beatty held a 
minimum of 40% female representation on the 
Board, and had a female Director occupying a 
senior Board role (Anne Drinkwater, Senior 
Independent Non-executive Director), therefore 
the Board was compliant with the gender diversity 
recommendations set out by the FTSE Women 
Leaders Review, and the Listing Rules and DTRs. 
The Committee considers that diversity on the 
Board is fundamental to setting the tone for the 
Group as it seeks to foster inclusivity and create 
a dynamic environment that nurtures innovation 
and sustainable growth. Balfour Beatty is dedicated 
to actively promoting gender diversity and 
empowering women in the construction industry. 
For insights into the Group’s initiatives aimed at 
advancing gender diversity and supporting 
women’s career progression, please refer to 
pages 72 and 73. 
The Committee is cognisant that it remains 
imperative that gender parity in senior management, 
particularly on the Executive Committee, is also 
diverse. To achieve this, Balfour Beatty is actively 
engaged in succession planning and prioritising 
the professional development of its existing 
female workforce, enabling them to progress 
to more senior positions with the Group. 
DIRECTOR APPOINTMENT PROCESS
When making a new appointment, the Committee takes the following steps:
 
See page 117 for details relating to the Board’s 
most recent appointments. 
1
DEFINE 
RECRUITMENT 
CRITERIA
Identify and articulate 
objectives and criteria based 
on its Board composition 
reviews and succession 
planning.
2
INSTRUCT EXTERNAL 
CONSULTANT
Engage an executive search 
consultant to provide a 
diverse array of candidates 
for consideration.
5
RECOMMEND
Agree a recommendation 
for appointment to the Board, 
taking account of matters 
such as gender, social and 
ethnic backgrounds and 
cognitive and personal 
strengths.
4
ASSESS
Assess each candidate’s 
existing skills, experience and 
time commitments, as well 
as any potential for actual 
conflicts of interest.
3
SHORTLIST AND 
INTERVIEW
Shortlist candidates and 
conduct interviews.
Nomination Committee continued
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
STRATEGIC REPORT

--- PAGE BREAK ---

143
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Induction programmes are varied and include a selection of:
Meetings with the Board
 
@ One-to-one meetings with the Executive Directors, 
Independent Non-executive Directors, and the Group 
General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Meetings with the Executive 
Committee and senior 
management
 
@ One-to-one meetings with members of the Executive 
Committee, as well as meetings with key members of 
senior management from a variety of departments and 
business units, with the content of meetings varying 
depending on the Director being inducted and their 
background and individual experience.
Meetings with the auditors 
 
@ Meetings with the Group Director of Risk and Audit and 
the External Auditor.
Self-study 
 
@ Documents provided via the electronic Board portal 
covering key information relating to the Group including 
financial performance, Board policies and procedures 
and governance matters. 
Site visits and workforce 
engagements 
 
@ Visits to key operational sites offer the Directors the 
opportunity to meet with the workforce and gain 
valuable insight into operations and Company culture.
Meetings with key shareholders 
and stakeholders
 
@ Supported by the Group Chair and the Company 
Secretary, the induction programme will, as appropriate, 
include a schedule of meetings with major shareholders 
and key stakeholders in order to support newly 
appointed Directors’ understanding of shareholder and 
stakeholder views, and the discharge of their Directors’ 
duties under Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006. 
Education and training
 
@ If any gaps in skills or experience are identified within 
the interview process, internal and external training will 
be provided and tailored to the needs of the Director. 
For a breakdown of gender demographics across 
the Group, please refer to the Sustainability 
section on page 67. In compliance with LR 
9.8.6R(10) additional diversity analysis can be 
found on page 175.
Ethnic diversity 
The Committee acknowledges the significance 
of the Parker Review, which provides guidance 
and targets for increasing ethnic diversity within 
the Board and senior leadership positions. As of 
1 December 2024, the Board was compliant with 
the Parker Review following the appointment of 
Rudy Wynter as a Independent Non-executive 
Director. Rudy has been a welcome addition to the 
Board, bringing with him a fresh perspective and 
years of experience and expertise from his long 
standing and illustrious career at National Grid 
New York. Please see his biography on page 121 
for further information. 
The Committee recognises the importance of 
ethnic diversity on the Board, and acknowledges 
that for the Group to develop a truly diverse and 
inclusive culture, the Board needs to:
 
@ set the right top-down example; 
 
@ be a more proportionate representation of the 
Group’s workforce, the communities in which 
it operates, and society at large; and
 
@ foster a culture that embraces and celebrates 
diversity and inclusion.
As a business, Balfour Beatty must make every 
effort to attract and retain a diverse talent and 
break down the barriers that stifle recruitment 
and progression of ethnic minorities within the 
industry. With the support of the HR function, 
the Group drives a number of initiatives to 
support career development of ethnic minorities 
within the workforce. Details of such initiatives 
can be found in the People section on pages 72 
and 73. 
Listing Rules and Disclosure Guidance 
and Transparency Rules 
As at 31 December 2024, the Board was 
compliant with the diversity targets by Listing 
Rule 9.8.6R(9)(a), as the Board:
 
@ had 40% female representation (22.2% on the 
Executive Committee);
 
@ had at least one senior board position occupied 
by a female Director (Anne Drinkwater was 
appointed as Senior Independent 
non‑executive Director); and
 
@ at least one board member was from a minority 
ethnic background (although there are currently 
no Executive Committee members from an 
ethnic minority background). 
Data on these targets in the required standardised 
form can be found in the Directors’ report on 
page 175.
The Board and the Committee remains committed 
to diversifying the workforce at all levels by 
supporting a diverse succession pipeline at 
senior management level and supporting and 
monitoring Group-wide diversity and inclusivity 
policies and initiatives designed to promote 
diversity across the construction sector. 
Director induction
Following appointment, all Directors receive a 
comprehensive and tailored induction programme. 
All newly appointed Directors are required to 
devote the time required to complete the induction 
programme. The time commitments are set out in 
their respective letters of appointment. Induction 
programmes are designed by the Company 
Secretary in conjunction with the Group Chair, 
Senior Independent Non-executive Director and 
Group Chief Executive.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
144
144
Safety and 
Sustainability 
Committee
COMMITTEE REPORTS CONTINUED
Report of the Safety and 
Sustainability Committee
I am pleased to present my first 
Safety and Sustainability Committee 
report having taken over as Chair of 
the Committee from Stuart Doughty 
CMG who retired from the Board 
following the Company’s 2024 AGM. 
The Committee met three times in 2024 and 
its meetings were regularly attended by other 
members of the Board as well as the Health, 
Safety and Wellbeing Director, Lee Hewitt, and 
the Group Director of Sustainability, Jo Gilroy, both 
of whom provide expertise and support to the 
Committee on their relevant subject matters. 
Other key individuals are invited to meetings 
of the Committee to support the Committee 
in understanding particular matters.
Rudy Wynter joined the Committee in February 
2025 following his appointment to the Board on 
1 December 2024. 
Health, safety and wellbeing
I am delighted to share that Balfour Beatty delivered 
its best health and safety performance to date in 
2024. Balfour Beatty’s ‘Make Safety Personal’ 
culture, supported by our Zero Harm strategy 
and Digital Safety and Engagement initiatives 
collectively supported the Group to record:
 
@ no fatalities recorded in 2024; 
 
@ Lost Time Incident Rates (LTIR) fell to 0.09 
(2023: 0.11), the lowest figure ever achieved 
across the Group;
 
@ the major injury rate remained at 0.02 in 2024, 
maintaining the strong performance of 2023; and
 
@ a Group record of 470,506 safety observations 
were submitted by employees.
The Group continued its positive work supporting 
the mental health of employees in 2024. The 
health of employees is viewed as a key component 
of the Zero Harm initiative as the focus on ‘Be Fit 
for Work’ explores physical, emotional, and mental 
health. In 2024, the Group furthered its efforts by 
renewing its partnership with construction industry 
charity Mates in Mind, in a bid to promote positive 
mental health and wellbeing in the construction sector. 
The Group is expanding its use of innovative 
digital solutions and AI to enhance its safety 
culture and deliver against its Zero Harm strategy. 
The use of animations to deliver lessons learned, 
and human form recognition technologies are 
serving to keep our employees safe. 
For further information on health, safety and 
wellbeing please refer to page 40 to 45. 
Sustainability
In 2024, we evolved and relaunched our 
sustainability strategy. This established new 
commitments and targets in key areas, including: 
climate change, nature positive, resource efficiency, 
supply chain integrity, community engagement, 
and employee diversity, equity and inclusion. 
The Company has developed science-based 
targets to set a clearly defined path to reduce 
emissions in line with the Paris Agreement goals. 
The targets were submitted to the Science Based 
Targets initiative (SBTi) for validation in line with 
the most recent SBTi criteria. Following SBTi 
validation, the Company will publish those targets 
on its website and will disclose each year the 
Group’s emissions and progress against targets. 
Gabby Costigan MBE
Chair of the Safety and Sustainability Committee
11 March 2025
MEMBERSHIP
Gabby Costigan (Committee Chair)
Anne Drinkwater
Louise Hardy
Leo Quinn
Rudy Wynter
KEY ACTIONS FROM 2024
 
@ Support the onboarding of Gabby Costigan 
MBE, as the new Committee Chair.
 
@ Received reports on the implementation 
of Group health, safety, and wellbeing and 
sustainability initiatives.
 
@ Reviewed findings from incidents and 
near misses and ensured learnings were 
embedded across the Group.
 
@ Implemented and monitored the Building 
New Futures commitments.
 
@ Received updates on regulatory 
developments across health, safety, 
wellbeing and sustainability matters.
PRIORITIES FOR 2025
 
@ Monitor progress towards the Group’s 
Building New Futures targets for net zero, 
resource efficiency, nature positive, 
community impact and DE&I. 
 
@ Focus on a culture of Zero Harm and 
Group-wide sustainability.
 
@ Continued focus on targeted risk elimination.
 
@ Monitor progress against the Group’s 
SBTi trajectory for net zero.
 
@ Oversee the development of a US-specific 
Sustainability Plan.
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
STRATEGIC REPORT

--- PAGE BREAK ---

145
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
OF THE COMMITTEE
 
@ Reviewing strategies, policies and procedures 
of the Group in relation to health, safety, 
and wellbeing and sustainability matters.
 
@ Monitoring and updating the Group’s 
control processes where appropriate.
 
@ Approving health and safety targets and 
key performance indicators, monitoring 
the Group’s performance against them 
and taking corrective action where necessary.
 
@ Monitoring the Group’s performance against 
the main health, safety, wellbeing and 
sustainability risk groups, and implementing 
strategies to mitigate such risks.
 
@ Reviewing the environmental and 
sustainability performance of the Group, 
including but not limited to energy and carbon 
emissions, materials and waste management 
and social and community matters.
 
@ Approving environmental and sustainability 
targets and key performance indicators, 
monitoring the Group’s performance 
against them and taking corrective action 
where necessary.
Main activities of the 
Committee during the year
Safety performance and Zero Harm
The Health, Safety and Wellbeing (HS&W) 
Director issued regular reports to the Committee 
throughout 2024 on the Group’s performance 
against various health and safety KPIs including 
data covering fatalities, injuries, serious and 
minor events, near misses and health and safety 
observation reporting. Following a strong 
performance in 2023, the Group continued to 
receive a record number of workforce safety 
observations, indicating strong employee 
engagement in respect of health and safety 
matters. Positive employee engagement results 
also confirmed the continued strong Zero Harm 
culture within the business. Further details on 
Zero Harm can be found on pages 40 to 45.
Reports were received regarding progress on 
Group initiatives, including:
 
@ US Civils building safety;
 
@ progress against Zero Harm and priorities; and
 
@ incident overview and actions.
Notable incidents and fatalities
No fatalities were recorded in 2024. The Committee 
continued to receive regular reports on learnings 
and actions arising from incidents or near misses 
that had high potential of serious injury. 
Environment and sustainability
In 2024 the Group launched an updated 
sustainability strategy across its UK operations, 
intended to simplify, prioritise, and consolidate 
the Group’s approach to sustainability and the 
adoption of a uniform approach to delivering 
sustainability ambitions. 
The Committee received regular updates 
throughout the year on the Company’s 
performance on sustainability and environmental 
targets, including waste management and carbon 
performance. The Committee also monitored the 
Group’s social impacts and creation of social 
value for local communities. 
Performance was monitored in 2024 and key 
takeaways of performance against focus areas 
were identified which in turn assisted with the 
development of a tailored plan of action. The 
Company believes this strategy demonstrates 
alignment with the Sustainable Development 
Goals set by the United Nations and allows for 
consistency across the business. 
Governance
During the year, the Committee reviewed its 
Terms of Reference, which can be found on the 
Company’s website.
The Committee monitored the resourcing of 
both the HS&W and Sustainability functions, and 
reviewed the appropriateness and effectiveness 
of the governance framework for HS&W and 
sustainability matters. 
Committee performance review
In 2024, the Board and its Committees undertook 
an external performance review led by Egon Zehnder. 
For more information on the scope and outcomes 
of the review, please refer to page 137 to 139.
ALLOCATION 
OF TIME
 
Health and safety updates
42%
 
Environment and sustainability updates
44%
 
Governance and other matters
14%
Talk 
Positively
Award
This category was for an individual who talks 
with pride and enthusiasm about our business, 
our colleagues, our industry, and our future.
Winner: Summer Boron
Vice President, US Buildings
Summer has long been one of the people 
in the US Northwest Division that has a 
significant positive impact on Balfour Beatty’s 
culture and work experience in the US. Her 
impact on the business started within the 
Marketing team where her positive energy 
and personality made her an ideal candidate 
for working with colleagues within the business 
to produce top quality winning proposals. 
READ MORE ABOUT 
OUR ICON AWARDS 
EVENT ON p74
Above: Award presentation photo. (Left to right): 
Gabby Costigan MBE, Balfour Beatty Independent 
Non-executive Director, Summer Boron, Vice President 
– US buildings, and Richard Robinson, President AMEA 
(Asia, Middle East, Australia) – AtkinsRéalis. 
SCAN OR CLICK TO VIEW THE SAFETY 
AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE’S 
TERMS OF REFERENCE
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

146
146
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Audit 
and Risk 
Committee
MEMBERSHIP
Robert MacLeod (Committee Chair)
Louise Hardy
Michael Lucki
Barbara Moorhouse
KEY ACTIONS FROM 2024
 
@ Supported the induction of Robert 
MacLeod as the new Chair, and Louise 
Hardy as a new Committee member.
 
@ Continued to monitor developments in 
the control environment in the US 
Military Housing business, and reviewed 
progress on the implementation of the 
recommendations set out in the independent 
compliance monitor’s initial and first 
follow-up report.
 
@ Reviewed and challenged management’s 
judgements on significant accounting 
issues including key contract judgements 
and management’s assessment of claims 
including those relating to the Building 
Safety Act. 
 
@ Continued to monitor risk management 
and internal control frameworks. 
 
@ Reviewed and monitored the development 
and ongoing implementation of a new 
Internal Control Framework (ICF) in 
preparation for compliance with the 
Provision 29 of the 2024 Corporate 
Governance Code in 2026. 
 
@ Continued to monitor and review employee 
training and development, and conducted 
investment risk assessments and ethics 
and compliance risk assessments. 
Report of the Audit 
and Risk Committee
I am pleased to present my first 
report of the Audit and Risk 
Committee. I took over as Chair in 
May 2024 following the departure 
of Dr Stephen Billingham CBE who 
stepped down from the Board and 
the Committee at the end of his 
nine-year tenure.
This report is intended to provide shareholders 
with an insight into key areas considered by the 
Committee, together with an explanation of how 
the Committee discharged its responsibilities and 
provided assurance on the integrity of the 2024 
Annual Report and Accounts.
The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board 
in fulfilling its responsibilities related to Group 
financial statements, risk management and 
financial controls, and overseeing the Internal 
Audit function and the external auditor.
The Committee held four meetings in 2024, 
all of which were fully attended. All Independent 
Non-executive Directors are encouraged to attend 
Committee meetings and meetings were also 
regularly attended by the Group Chair, Group Chief 
Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Group Risk and 
Audit Director, UK Head of Internal Audit, Group 
Financial Controller, Group General Counsel and 
Company Secretary and representatives of the 
external auditor, including the lead audit partner. 
There were further ad hoc attendees who joined 
Committee meetings for specific agenda items.
PRIORITIES FOR 2025
 
@ Review and monitor the ongoing 
implementation of the matured Internal 
Control Framework (ICF).
 
@ Conduct the tender process for the 
selection of an external audit firm for 
the 31 December 2026 year end.
 
@ Continue to monitor developments in 
the control environment within the US 
Military Housing business and continue 
to assess the implementation of further 
recommendations from the independent 
compliance monitor. 
 
@ Continue to support the training and 
development appointed Committee 
members in respect of audit and risk matters.
 
@ Continue to review and challenge 
management’s judgements on significant 
accounting issues including key contract 
judgements.
 
@ Conduct robust reviews of the detailed 
drivers and mitigation activities of the 
Group’s principal risks. 
COMMITTEE REPORTS CONTINUED
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

147
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COMMITTEE
 
@ Monitoring the integrity of the Group’s 
financial statements, including providing 
advice (where requested by the Board) on 
whether the Annual Report, taken as a 
whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, 
and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s 
position and performance, business model 
and strategy.
 
@ Reviewing any significant financial issues and 
judgements related to the Group’s financial 
statements, including the Investments 
portfolio valuations.
 
@ Ensuring management has effective systems 
of risk management and internal control in place.
 
@ Monitoring the effectiveness of the Internal 
Audit function.
 
@ Overseeing the relationship with the external 
auditor, including annual approval of the external 
audit plan, review of audit opinions, setting of 
external auditor remuneration, and reporting 
the results of external audits to the Board. 
 
@ Responsible for the appointment of the 
external auditor, and overseeing audit tenders 
when these take place. 
 
@ Monitoring the effectiveness, objectivity and 
independence of the external auditor, including 
factors related to the provision of non-audit 
services. 
 
@ Reviewing the Company’s carbon emissions 
data, related emissions intensity data, and 
social value disclosures included in the 2024 
Annual Report. 
Internal Control Framework (ICF)
An area of focus during 2024 was further developing 
the maturity of the Internal Control Framework (ICF) 
in preparation for compliance with Provision 29 of 
the 2024 UK Corporate Governance Code in 2026. 
Throughout 2024, the Audit and Risk Committee has 
overseen the ongoing progress towards building a 
more mature Group-wide Internal Control 
Framework (ICF), which has included:
 
@ working with subject matter experts to 
understand control owners, the control 
design and the verification process;
 
@ establishing a standardised template for 
documenting internal controls in the ICF 
and establish a tiering system aligned to 
organisational hierarchy;
 
@ developing a set of materiality criteria to help 
the Board identify and categorise material 
controls; and
 
@ seeking feedback from the Audit and Risk 
Committee on the design of the proposed 
assurance process. 
US Military Housing
The Committee received regular updates on 
the Balfour Beatty Communities’ Compliance 
Programme throughout the year. In 2024, 
I took the opportunity to meet the independent 
compliance monitor in person. Regular meetings 
with senior management and the independent 
compliance monitor took place throughout the 
year which provided an opportunity for all sides:
 
@ to review the progress against responding 
to the Monitor’s recommendations;
 
@ to assess the timescales of the action plan put 
in place to implement the recommendations;
 
@ to review the resourcing of the team required 
to deliver the plan; and
 
@ 
to confirm that the implementation team 
receives the support necessary to ensure the 
monitorship process is successful and delivers 
the desired outcomes.
In 2024, the independent compliance monitor 
published their first follow-up report and attended 
the Committee in November to present their 
findings. The follow-up report issued a number 
of further recommendations (in addition to the 
recommendations arising from their first report). 
For more information on the Committee’s oversight 
of the US Military Housing business, please refer 
to page 150.
Governance
The Committee annually reviews and approves 
its Terms of Reference, which can be viewed by 
scanning or clicking on the QR Code on the left 
hand side. 
In accordance with its Terms of Reference, the 
Committee remained focused on monitoring the 
integrity of the Group’s financial and risk reporting 
and continued to discharge its duties to the 
Board. Further detail on the Committee’s 
activities throughout the year is set out on 
the following pages.
Robert MacLeod
Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee
11 March 2025
ALLOCATION 
OF TIME
 
Financial reporting and external audit
50%
 
Internal audit, risk management and 
internal control
39%
 
Governance and other matters
11%
SCAN OR CLICK TO VIEW THE 
AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE’S 
TERMS OF REFERENCE
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

148
148
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Main activities of the Committee during the year
Committee activities during 2024
The Committee has a substantial remit and cycle of actions to complete throughout the year. The Committee Chair, with the support of the Group Company Secretary, ensures the Committee fully discharges 
its responsibilities in accordance with its terms of reference, whilst maintaining sufficient time for discussion of ad hoc items that arise throughout the year. 
MAR
MAY
AUG
NOV
Group financial statements
Received reports on financial and accounting, contract and commercial issues and litigation
Approved financial results regulatory announcements and the Annual Report and Accounts to be put to the Board
Approved the Group’s viability and going concern statements
Reviewed Directors’ valuation of the Investments portfolio
Approved greenhouse gas emissions representation letter to PwC
External auditor
Reviewed the external auditor’s report on the Company’s full year and half year financial statements
Reviewed the external auditor’s assessment of its objectivity and independence including a review of non-audit services (and associated 
fees) provided by the external auditor
Reviewed management representation letters related to the Company’s full year and half year financial statements
Reviewed the external auditor’s half year review plan and audit strategy
Reviewed the effectiveness of the external auditor 
Reviewed the briefing document prepared by management on the external audit tender process due to commence in 2025
Approved the external auditor’s fees
Risk management and 
financial controls (including 
the Internal Audit function)
Conducted assessments of the Group’s systems of risk management and internal control, including a robust assessment of principal and 
emerging risks
Approved internal audit plans and received updates on internal audit and risk 
Received updates on US military housing controls and compliance (attended by the independent compliance monitor)
Received the half year risk and controls report 
Other matters 
Received updates on Group tax and insurance
Received updates on Group ethics and compliance, including whistleblowing reports
Reviewed the annual update to the Ethics and Compliance Programme charter
Terms of reference review
Held private meetings between the non-executive Directors, Group Risk and Audit Director and KPMG
COMMITTEE REPORTS CONTINUED
Audit and Risk Committee continued
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

149
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Significant issues and other accounting judgements
The following sets out all significant issues reviewed by the Committee throughout the year, being 
those requiring management to exercise the highest level of judgement or estimation. The Committee 
assesses these judgements or estimates to determine if they are reasonable and appropriate.
Committee composition 
The Committee is chaired by Robert MacLeod. 
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, the Board has determined that Robert has 
recent and relevant financial experience, and the 
Committee as a whole has the required skills and 
expertise to discharge their duties.
The Committee Chair is supported by the other 
Committee members in delivering the Committee’s 
governance responsibilities. Committee members 
possess a range of experience relevant to the 
sector within which the Company operates, and 
also in relation to financial management, audit and 
risk. The Committee members’ full biographical 
details can be found on pages 120 and 121.
Evaluation of the Committee
In 2024, the Board and its Committees undertook 
an external performance review led by Egon 
Zehnder. For more information on the scope and 
outcomes of the review, please refer to pages 
137 to 139. 
Financial reporting 
A key responsibility of the Committee is to 
monitor and oversee the integrity of the Group’s 
published financial statements. This responsibility 
is discharged in part through the review and 
evaluation of the Company’s full year and half 
year financial statements.
REVENUE AND MARGIN RECOGNITION
Given the nature of the Group’s operations, 
these elements are central to how it values 
its work. Having reviewed detailed reports 
and met with management, the Committee 
considered contract and commercial issues 
on projects which have an elevated level of 
exposure to both revenue and margin 
recognition risks based on certain risk 
parameters set by management. As a key 
area of audit focus, the Committee also 
received a detailed written report from the 
external auditor setting out the results of its 
work in relation to key contract estimates.
NON-UNDERLYING ITEMS
The key judgement is whether items relate to 
underlying trading or not and whether they 
have been presented in accordance with the 
Group’s accounting policy. The Committee 
conducted a review of each of the non‑underlying 
items, receiving written reports from 
management and the external auditor as 
to their quantum and nature.
CONTRACT PROVISIONS
The Committee reviewed the significant 
estimates of the quantum and timing of 
liabilities relating to contract provisions 
(including those relating to fire safety), 
as well as litigation and other risks. The 
Committee received detailed reports 
including relevant legal advice.
RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS
The key judgement relates to the assumptions 
underlying the valuation of retirement benefit 
obligations. The Committee received reports 
from management outlining the assumptions 
used, including input from the Group’s 
actuaries, in particular in relation to discount 
rates, inflation and mortality, which were 
evaluated against external benchmarks and, 
in relation to which, the external auditor also 
provided reports.
GOING CONCERN AND VIABILITY 
STATEMENT
In order to satisfy itself that the Group has 
adequate resources to continue in operation 
for the foreseeable future and that there are 
no material uncertainties that could lead to 
significant doubt as to the Group’s ability to 
continue as a going concern, the Committee 
considered the Group’s viability statement, 
cash position (both existing and projected), 
bank facilities and covenants (including 
bonding lines) and the borrowing powers 
allowed under the Company’s Articles of 
Association. The Committee subsequently 
recommended to the Board the adoption 
of the going concern statement and the 
viability statement for inclusion in the 
Annual Report and Accounts. More details 
on going concern and the viability statement 
are contained in Note 1 on page 198 and 
on page 106 respectively.
DIRECTORS’ VALUATION OF THE 
INVESTMENTS PORTFOLIO
The Committee assessed the methodology 
used to value the assets in terms of the 
discount rates applied. It also critically 
appraised the output of the Directors’ 
valuation exercise. 
The Committee has full access to management, 
in order to ask questions and gain further insights 
where necessary and receives reports from 
members of the Finance and Internal Audit 
teams and the external auditor.
The Committee assesses whether the annual 
financial statements provide a ‘fair, balanced and 
understandable’ view of the Group’s position and 
performance, business model and strategy, as 
well as:
 
@ assessing whether the accounting policies 
applied, and judgements (including key contract 
judgements), estimates and assumptions 
made, by management are reasonable and 
appropriate based on information available 
(further details are in Note 2 on pages 206 
to 296); and
 
@ assessing whether the Company has complied 
with relevant financial reporting standards and 
other regulatory requirements, including the 
UK Corporate Governance Code and European 
Securities and Markets Authority Guidelines on 
Alternative Performance Measures.
Going concern and viability statement
As part of the Board’s wider responsibility for 
assessing the Group’s principal and other risks (see 
pages 94 to 105), the Committee was presented 
with management’s assessments of the Group’s 
viability over a three-year period to 31 December 
2027; and, its going concern basis for the period of 
at least 12 months from the date of approval of the 
financial statements.
The Committee assessed these analyses and 
assumptions, taking into account cash flows, 
current levels of debt and the availability of future 
finance if required. The viability and going concern 
assessments, including the severe but plausible 
downside scenarios modelled, were discussed and 
the Committee concluded that the assessments 
were appropriate. 
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

150
150
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Going concern and viability statement
The Committee also continued to consider the 
impact of climate change on the Group’s viability. 
The Committee subsequently approved the 
viability statement and the going concern 
disclosures for inclusion in the Annual Report 
and Accounts 2024. 
The viability statement and the going concern 
disclosure can be found on page 106 and in 
Note 1 on page 198 respectively.
US Military Housing
During the year the Committee received regular 
updates from senior leaders on the work within 
Balfour Beatty Communities to improve the 
control environment within the Military Housing 
business. The Committee and senior management 
continued to monitor and assess improvement 
activities being undertaken to deliver the Compliance 
Programme and enhance internal controls.
In 2024, the independent compliance monitor, 
appointed by the US Department of Justice, 
issued their first follow-up report, which included 
a number of new recommendations (in addition 
to the recommendations set out in their first 
report). The recommendations included adopting 
a new and holistic approach to programme 
implementation, and that Balfour Beatty Communities 
establish a Compliance Combined Action Team 
(the CCAT) to deliver the programme. The 
independent compliance monitor presented 
their new recommendations to the Committee 
in November. 
In November 2024, Balfour Beatty Communities 
and the independent compliance monitor agreed 
to extend the most recent implementation 
period to enable the delivery of the additional 
recommendations set out in the first follow-up 
report and agreed to commence the second 
follow-up review period in March 2025.
Building safety provisions 
The Committee received regular updates from 
management in respect of the process to identify 
and confirm building safety liabilities. 
The UK Building Safety Act (BSA) extends the 
limitation for claims under the Defective Premises 
Act 1972 from 6 years to 30 years for dwellings 
completed before 28 June 2022. Since the 
introduction of the BSA, the Group has conducted 
investigations and due diligence on claims received 
to establish whether an obligation exists and if 
costs can be reliably estimated, and these have 
been reviewed by the Committee. The Group has 
recognised a provision where a probable obligation 
has been established and cost associated with 
the claim can be reliably estimated. 
In 2024, following further developments and 
clarifications in the legal landscape of the BSA, 
progression of the Group’s investigation and due 
diligence, as well as adjudications on claims 
received to date, the Group has reassessed its 
provision for BSA claims resulting in an increase 
in the provision of £83 million. The provision does 
not include potential recoveries from third parties. 
This increase has been recognised in non-underlying 
due to its size and the nature of the cost, which 
has arisen from a change in legislation. 
Based on its review and discussions with 
management and the external auditor, the 
Committee concluded that the level of the 
provision and the treatment as a non-underlying 
item was appropriate. 
Claim relating to legacy project in Texas 
The Committee assessed management’s 
treatment of the claim relating to a legacy project 
in Texas which completed in 2012. Further details 
are available in Note 10.2.4. 
In light of the jury verdict delivered in November 
2024 on this claim, the Group has recognised a 
non-underlying charge of £52 million. This charge, 
which is net of insurance recoveries of £40 million 
for which the Group has received confirmation of 
cover from its insurers, represents the Group’s best 
estimate of the probable damages to be awarded.
The Group maintains the view that these damages 
are a result of design elements of the contract 
which were performed by subcontractors to the 
joint operation. The Group, together with its joint 
operation partner, is pursuing recoveries from 
these subcontractors, however at this stage, 
the Group has not recognised any potential 
recoveries from these parties. 
Based on its review and discussions with 
management and the external auditor, the 
Committee concluded that the level of the 
provision together with the recognition of 
insurance recoveries, and the treatment as 
a non‑underlying item was appropriate. 
External auditor
Rotation and reappointment
The Company’s external auditor is KPMG LLP. 
KPMG’s appointment was first approved by 
shareholders at the 2016 AGM, following an audit 
tender process in 2015. KPMG replaced Deloitte, 
the incumbent for the preceding 14 years.
Pursuant to the provisions of the Revised Ethical 
Standard 2019, the Company has adopted a policy 
that no external auditor, appointed following the 
implementation of the Revised Ethical Standard 
2019 (as summarised below), can remain in post 
for longer than 20 years. The Company has adopted 
a policy that the Committee will lead an audit 
tender process every 10 years and that this will 
apply to the current incumbent, KPMG. Consequently, 
the next external audit tender is anticipated to 
take place following the completion of KPMG’s 
audit for the year ended 31 December 2024. 
The Audit and Risk Committee’s 
role in ensuring the financial 
statements taken as a whole are 
fair, balanced and understandable
As part of the Committee’s assessment as 
to whether the annual financial statements 
provide a ‘fair, balanced and understandable’ 
view, the Committee has oversight of and 
reviews the effectiveness of the following 
processes implemented by management:
 
@ comprehensive guidance issued to 
all contributors;
 
@ verification of the factual content of the 
financial statements;
 
@ review of the disclosures made by the 
contributors to each section; and
 
@ comprehensive reviews by senior 
management to ensure consistency and 
overall balance.
In addition to the above, the Committee also 
undertakes a review to determine if the entire 
financial statements are representative of the 
Group’s performance in the year and challenges 
management on the overall balance of the 
report prior to recommending approval of the 
financial statements to the Board.
COMMITTEE REPORTS CONTINUED
Audit and Risk Committee continued
Main activities of the Committee during the year continued
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

151
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
The Committee considers that the external 
auditor relationship is appropriate and productive 
and the Committee is satisfied with KPMG’s 
effectiveness. Mike Barradell completed his 
second year as lead audit partner for the year 
ended 31 December 2024. The external auditor 
is required to rotate the lead partner every five 
years – such changes are planned carefully to 
ensure business continuity, whilst avoiding the 
introduction of undue risk of inefficiencies and 
any impact to audit quality. 
The key aspects of the Revised Ethical Standard 
2019 include the following:
 
@ audit firms should have a maximum tenure 
of 10 years, although the UK Government 
proposes to allow an extension of:
 
– up to an additional 10 years where a public 
tender is carried out after 10 years; or
 
– by up to an additional 14 years where more 
than one audit firm is appointed to carry out 
the audit;
 
@ audit firms are prohibited from providing 
certain non-audit services;
 
@ where permitted non-audit services are 
provided by a group’s auditor, they will be 
subject to a fees cap; and
 
@ restrictions within any contract limiting a 
group’s choice of auditor are prohibited.
The disclosures provided within this report 
constitute the Company’s statement of 
compliance with the requirements of the 
Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies 
Market Investigation (Mandatory Use of 
Competitive Tender Processes and Audit 
Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014.
Audit tender 
In anticipation of the audit tender to be 
conducted following the completion of KPMG’s 
audit for the year ended 31 December 2024, 
the Committee has been preparing for the tender 
and has outlined its proposed timetable below. 
The process is anticipated to commence in 
earnest once the request for proposal is issued in 
April 2025. The Committee has currently invited 
a shortlist of audit firms to participate, including 
KPMG. This shortlist follows an assessment 
carried out identifying firms that have the 
experience, track record and capacity to perform 
a robust audit. In assessing this shortlist, the 
Committee has reviewed the Financial Reporting 
Council’s (FRC) assessment of each firm’s audit 
quality, including quality scores from the latest 
FRC Audit Quality Reports. The Committee has 
also sought confirmation of independence from 
each firm and confirmation that conflict of 
interest checks have been performed.
The Committee intends to conclude the audit 
tender process by July 2025 with the selected 
audit firm appointed at the Company’s AGM in 
2026 for the external audit firm to be in place to 
conduct the Group’s half year review for 2026. 
KPMG will remain in place for the Group’s 
31 December 2025 audit. 
Independence
A formal review of the external auditor’s 
independence is conducted by the Committee 
annually. The most recent review took place in 
March 2025, when the Committee considered 
a letter submitted by KPMG which sets out:
 
@ any relationships that bear on its objectivity 
and independence and the safeguards 
implemented to address any consequent 
threats to independence; and
 
@ considerations related to the provision of 
non-audit services, including a comparison 
for the prior year (further detail below).
Following review of this letter, the Committee 
satisfied itself that KPMG remained sufficiently 
independent in accordance with the relevant 
professional ethical standards.
EXTERNAL AUDITOR TENDER TIMETABLE 
2016
May–June 
2025
2023
2024
April
2025
July
2025
July
2025
May
2026
AGM
KPMG appointed as 
external auditor at 
2016 AGM, replacing 
Deloitte as 
incumbent auditor
Management 
meetings with 
audit firms take 
place
Mike Barradell 
replaces Paul Sawdon 
as KPMG lead audit 
partner following 
Paul’s completion of 
his fifth year as lead 
audit partner
Shortlist of audit firms 
confirmed with 
chosen audit firms 
confirming 
independence
Request for 
proposal delivered 
to audit firms
Presentations by 
audit firms to 
Audit 
Committee’s 
sub-committee 
Recommendations 
to the Audit 
Committee
Appointment of 
external auditor by 
shareholders
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

152
152
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Main activities of the 
Committee during the year 
continued
External auditor continued
Non-audit work
The Company maintains a Non-Audit Services 
Policy governing the provision of non-audit 
services. The policy sets out:
 
@ specific services that the external auditor 
is prohibited from providing to the Group;
 
@ details of any characteristics that could 
potentially make a service prohibited; and
 
@ a requirement for the Chief Financial Officer to 
approve non-prohibited services where the fee 
is below £50,000, and for the Chair of the 
Audit and Risk Committee to approve 
non-prohibited services where the fee 
exceeds £50,000. 
KPMG also operates its own internal policy that 
prohibits it from providing non-audit services, 
other than one closely related to an audit, to any 
FTSE 350 company. 
These provisions help to safeguard the external 
auditor’s objectivity and independence, and 
mitigate the risk that the external auditor will: 
 
@ audit its own work;
 
@ make management decisions on behalf of 
the Group;
 
@ act as advocate for the Group; and/or
 
@ create a mutuality of interest with the Group.
In accordance with the policy for the provision of 
non-audit services, and in line with the Financial 
Reporting Council’s ethical standards, the aggregated 
spend on non-audit services with the external 
auditor must not exceed 60% of the Group audit 
fee, unless exceptional circumstances exist, with 
a three-year rolling average not exceeding 70% 
of the Group audit fee. 
During 2024, there were fees of £0.6 million 
(2023: £0.5 million) paid to KPMG for non-audit 
services. 2024 non-audit services provided by 
KPMG primarily related to the review of the 
Group’s half year results.
Audit fees for 2024 were £5.2 million 
(2023: £5.1 million). Further details are 
included in Note 6.2 on page 213.
65% of non-audit-related work provided by 
international accounting firms in 2024 was 
carried out by firms other than KPMG. 
Effectiveness
As part of the Committee’s annual cycle of activities, 
the Committee conducts an effectiveness review 
of the external auditor, assesses the appropriateness 
of the external audit plan, and assesses the external 
auditor’s professional scepticism. From this review, 
the Committee assessed that the audit was 
effective and recommendations for improvement 
were identified and communicated to the external 
auditor where necessary. Committee members 
meet privately with the external auditor and 
management throughout the year in order to 
gain feedback to support these assessments. 
Risk management and 
internal control
The Board assumes ultimate responsibility for 
the effective management of risk and internal 
control across the Group. However, the 
Committee assists the Board in monitoring the 
Group’s internal financial controls, and internal 
control and risk management systems, and 
monitoring and reviewing the work and 
effectiveness of the Internal Audit function. 
Internal Audit
The Internal Audit function plays an integral 
role in the Company’s governance structure, 
providing independent assurance and advice 
to help the Group achieve its strategic priorities. 
The half yearly internal audit plans were approved 
by the Committee and provided an assessment 
of the adequacy of the budget and resources. 
Each audit plan is based on risk, strategic priorities 
and consideration of the strength of the control 
environment. The Committee monitors progress 
against the plan and reviews the results of internal 
audit reports during each meeting. Management 
is responsible for ensuring that issues raised in 
internal audit reports are addressed within the 
agreed timetable and their timely completion is 
reviewed by the Committee. Where internal or 
external circumstances give rise to an increased 
level of risk, the audit plan is modified accordingly.
The effectiveness of the Internal Audit function 
is assessed by the Committee by evaluating 
internal audit reports and at meetings without 
management present. The Committee also 
reviewed the resources and skills of the Internal 
Audit function and concluded that they are 
appropriate for its activities. Accordingly, the 
Committee is satisfied that the quality, experience 
and expertise of the Internal Audit function is 
appropriate for the business.
Internal control and risk 
Details of the Group’s internal controls and risk 
management framework are set out more fully 
on pages 89 to 93 in the Strategic report and 
pages 134 and 135 in the Governance report. 
The Group’s principal risks are set out on pages 
94 to 105.
The Committee has evaluated the effectiveness 
of the internal control systems operated within 
the Group pursuant to the FRC’s guidance on 
internal controls. 
The evaluation covered:
 
@ all material financial, operational and 
compliance controls; 
 
@ management confirmation reports;
 
@ reports on controls; 
 
@ reports on fraud perpetrated against the Group;
 
@ the Group’s approach to anti-bribery and 
corruption and whistleblowing; and 
 
@ reports from both the Internal Audit function 
and the external auditor. 
The review did not identify any significant 
weaknesses in the system of internal control 
and risk management.
Furthermore, the Committee has overseen 
the ongoing development of a new Group-wide 
Internal Control Framework (ICF) in preparation 
for compliance with Provision 29 of the 2024 UK 
Corporate Governance Code from 1 January 2026. 
Whistleblowing and fraud 
Throughout 2024 the Committee, on behalf of 
the Board, considered the Group’s confidential 
reporting and whistleblowing procedures and 
remains satisfied that these procedures are 
sufficiently robust and appropriate. The Committee 
tracks any Speak Up reports received, and 
monitors any investigations undertaken and any 
restorative actions taken by the Group. The 
Committee also reviews any instances of fraud 
perpetrated against the Group and the action 
taken by management to prevent recurrences.
COMMITTEE REPORTS CONTINUED
Audit and Risk Committee continued
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

153
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Remuneration 
Committee
MEMBERSHIP
 
@ Anne Drinkwater (Chair of the Committee)
 
@ Michael Lucki 
 
@ Robert MacLeod
 
@ Barbara Moorhouse
KEY ACTIONS FROM 2024
The Committee’s time in 2024 was focused 
on overseeing the implementation of the current 
Remuneration Policy. Key actions included:
 
@ considered ongoing developments in 
external corporate governance and best 
practice including the effective use of 
environmental, social and governance 
(ESG) measures within incentive arrangements;
 
@ ensured the current Remuneration Policy 
was implemented in alignment with 
business strategy and culture; and
 
@ reviewed and monitored senior management 
and wider workforce demographics and 
remuneration across the Group’s operations 
to ensure alignment with culture and as 
broader context for remuneration policy.
PRIORITIES FOR 2025
 
@ Conduct a full review of Remuneration 
Policy to ensure it remains effective and 
aligned to the Group’s strategic objectives. 
This will include ongoing shareholder 
consultation in advance of the 2026 AGM 
policy vote.
 
@ Further consider how to effectively incorporate 
measures within incentive arrangements.
 
@ Continue to ensure the Remuneration 
Policy is implemented in alignment with 
business strategy and culture.
 
@ Continue to review and monitor wider 
workforce demographics and remuneration 
across the Group’s operations to ensure 
alignment with culture and as broader 
context for Remuneration Policy.
Report of the Remuneration 
Committee
As Chair of the Remuneration Committee, I am 
pleased to present our Directors’ remuneration 
report for the year ended 31 December 2024. 
At the AGM in 2023, the Remuneration Policy 
was approved by over 81% of shareholders and 
a summary of the policy and how this will be 
implemented for the year ending 31 December 2025 
is included in the Remuneration At A Glance 
section on page 157. The remainder of the report 
sets out the Annual Report on Remuneration 
detailing how the current Remuneration Policy was 
applied over the year ended 31 December 2024.
Strategic and business context
As set out in this Annual Report:
 
@ Balfour Beatty has delivered another year 
of strong operational performance in 2024, 
resulting in the Group growing earnings, 
average cash and order book. Improvement 
in underlying profit was driven by the 
earnings‑based businesses, increased gains 
on Investments disposals and higher net 
finance income. 
 
@ Attracting new talent and retaining existing 
experts to support growth opportunities 
remains an important area of focus. We 
continue to invest in colleagues at all levels, 
from a focus on early careers development to 
targeted development aimed to strengthen our 
succession pipeline and enable transition into 
leadership roles. In the UK, early careers roles 
now represent 7.3% of the workforce.
 
@ Colleague engagement, measured through the 
annual survey, was particularly strong in 2024 
showing a further improvement to 84% in the 
Group score, an increase of 3 percentage points 
from last year and 11 percentage points above 
industry average.
 
@ Balfour Beatty continues to demonstrate 
its commitment to enabling an inclusive and 
ethical culture through the ongoing success 
in our Right to Respect programme in 
2024 across the UK and US. In the UK the 
programme was recognised through winning 
the Inclusive Culture Award at the enei 
Inclusivity Excellence Awards. The Value 
Everyone UK Diversity, Equity & Inclusion 
(DE&I) strategy and action plan continues to 
show steady progress with increased 
representation across key measures.
 
@ The Group and Committee remain mindful 
of the cost of living on colleagues despite 
an easing in inflation rates during 2024 and 
enhancements to employee benefits which 
aim to further support colleague wellbeing. 
Further details are included within the 
wider workforce section on page 156.
Incentive outcomes for 2024
The outcomes of the Annual Incentive Plan 
(AIP) for the executive Directors reflected 
the following (with further detail provided on 
pages 162 to 165).
 
@ Stretching financial targets were set at the start 
of the year. In line with last year, the cash flow 
targets have incorporated additional stretch 
following our review of historic targets and 
outperformance. Cash performance remained 
very strong, exceeding Maximum and profit 
exceeded Target performance. The formulaic 
assessment of the AIP indicated 88.5% of 
maximum in respect of the financial targets for 
the executive Directors. 
 
@ Objectives set for the executive Directors 
incorporated a number of consistent strategic 
business objectives together with role-specific 
personal objectives. Leo Quinn and Philip 
Harrison performed strongly against these 
objectives resulting in 96% of maximum for 
Leo Quinn and 100% of maximum for Philip 
Harrison for this element.
Anne Drinkwater 
Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

154
154
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
 
@ Philip Harrison has also demonstrated strong 
leadership across the business. He has gained 
agreement to updated metrics in the revolving 
credit facility which align to the sustainability 
strategy, successfully completed an extension 
to the CCB loan facility and improved prompt 
payment performance further in 2024. Further 
details of Philip Harrison’s strategic business 
and personal objectives are set out on page 165.
 
@ In line with good practice, the Remuneration 
Committee reviewed the overall outcome for the 
executive Directors and considered this reflective 
of the strong performance of the Group in 2024, 
including very strong safety performance and 
good progress against sustainability targets, not 
warranting any discretionary adjustment against 
the formulaic outcomes. Overall, 90.4% of 
maximum is to be paid to Leo Quinn and 91.4% 
of maximum to Philip Harrison. In line with the 
Policy, 50% of the pay-out will be deferred into 
shares for three years. 
The performance conditions relating to the 2022 
Performance Share Plan (PSP) awards measured 
performance over the three years ended 
31 December 2024. TSR performance over the 
period was above upper quartile, operating cash 
flow exceeded maximum and EPS was close to 
the top end of the target range. This results in 
these awards vesting strongly at 99.5% of 
maximum. In assessing the appropriateness 
of this outcome, the Remuneration Committee 
considered the overall performance of the 
Company over the performance period and 
shareholder experience, and considered the 
outcome reflective of the strong achievement. 
Given this strong performance the share price 
has also increased over this period. Whilst the 
Remuneration Committee is conscious of 
potential windfall gains from significant increases 
of share price, the Committee is satisfied the 
share price at grant was not depressed and 
the growth reflects the sustained underlying 
performance of the Company.
Board changes
We announced on 5 March 2025 that, after over 
10 years leading the business, Leo Quinn will 
step down from the Board as Group Chief 
Executive. Following an international search, 
Philip Hoare, Chief Operating Officer, AtkinsRéalis 
has been chosen by the Board to succeed him.
Departure terms for Leo Quinn 
Leo Quinn will remain in post as Group Chief 
Executive and an executive Director of the 
Company until Philip Hoare joins the Group. 
Leo will continue to be employed in an advisory 
capacity for several months to ensure a 
seamless transition.
Leo received his normal remuneration for 2024 
(details of which are included in the single total 
figure in the remuneration table on page 161). 
He will also be eligible for a pro-rated annual 
bonus in respect of his active service for 2025. 
Reflecting his long service and contribution to 
the business, the Committee exercised its 
discretion to grant ‘Good Leaver’ status for 
the purpose of Balfour Beatty’s share plans. 
Outstanding deferred bonus share awards will 
vest on cessation of employment in line with the 
Remuneration Policy. Outstanding PSP awards, 
subject to pro-rating for time and to the 
satisfaction of the applicable performance 
targets, will vest on their normal vesting dates. 
The post holding period relating to Leo’s PSP 
awards, will continue to apply as per the plan 
rules. Full details are provided on page 167.
Appointment terms for Philip Hoare
We are delighted Philip will join the Board as 
Group Chief Executive Officer. The selection 
process made clear that his depth of industry 
knowledge and his experience in delivering a 
profitable growth strategy across multiple 
geographies make him the ideal person to drive 
forward the Group’s success in our chosen 
markets. Details of his remuneration package is 
set out below: 
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES 
OF THE COMMITTEE
SCAN OR CLICK TO FIND OUT MORE 
ABOUT THE REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE’S TERMS OF REFERENCE
The Committee’s terms of reference were 
reviewed during the year to ensure 
compliance with the Code.
ALLOCATION 
OF TIME
 
Workforce Remuneration
12%
 
Remuneration of Directors and Executive 
Committee members
55%
 
Governance and other matters
33%
 
@ Philip will receive a base salary of £840,000 
and a pension allowance of 7% of salary 
(aligned with the wider workforce), along with 
other benefits offered to the wider workforce. 
It is intended that his salary will next be 
reviewed in July 2026;
 
@ Philip’s maximum annual bonus will be 150% 
of base salary. For 2025, his bonus will be 
pro-rated to reflect the period of service during 
the year; and
 
@ Philip will also be granted a PSP award of 
200% of base salary.
In line with usual practice, Philip will also receive 
awards to partially compensate for remuneration 
he is forfeiting on leaving his previous employer 
and joining Balfour Beatty. We applied the following 
principles in agreeing these buy-out awards:
 
@ the buy-out awards will not exceed the actual 
value forfeited; 
 
@ we are not compensating Philip for the 
AtkinsRéalis share options forfeited on joining 
Balfour Beatty;
 
@ 2025 buy-out awards: we may compensate 
Philip for amounts payable for vesting in 2025 
based on the actual amounts forfeited; 
 
@ 2026 and 2027 buy-out awards: we may 
compensate Philip, in part, for amounts payable 
or vesting in March and April 2026 and March 
2027 in respect of cash and share-based 
awards granted by his former employer. The 
quantum of the 2026 and 2027 buy-out awards 
will be capped at up to 75% of the time pro-rated 
and performance tested cash bonus due to be 
paid in April 2026, and up to 75% of the target 
share-based awards granted; 
 
@ where the buy-out is to replace an AtkinsRéalis 
share award, it will be delivered as an award 
over Balfour Beatty shares; 
 
@ the awards will vest no earlier than the same 
timescales as the forfeited awards; 
Incentive outcomes for 2024 continued
 
@ Demonstrated by performance against his 
strategic business and personal objectives, 
Leo Quinn has continued to show strong 
leadership, with improvements in key metrics 
for safety, engagement and diversity. He has 
overseen the validation of carbon reduction 
targets with the Science Based Targets 
initiative (SBTi), with reductions achieved in 
2024 on carbon emissions intensity. Further 
details of Leo Quinn’s strategic business and 
personal objectives are set out on pages 163 
and 164.
COMMITTEE REPORTS CONTINUED
Remuneration Committee continued
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

155
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
 
@ buy-out awards remain subject to performance 
conditions where appropriate. The 2026 and 
2027 replacement performance share plan 
awards will be subject to the performance 
conditions applicable to Balfour Beatty 2023 
and 2024 PSP awards;
 
@ to ensure ongoing alignment with Balfour 
Beatty shareholders, Philip will be required 
to retain shares he acquires from the buy-out 
share awards (net of any sale of vested Balfour 
Beatty shares which are required to meet 
applicable tax withholdings) in satisfaction of 
the shareholding requirements in our Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy; 
 
@ the 2026 and 2027 buy-out awards will be 
subject to continued employment until the 
vesting date; and
 
@ all buy-out awards are subject to the malus and 
clawback conditions as approved in our current 
Remuneration Policy. Furthermore, we have 
discretion to clawback any buy-out award in 
the event of Philip’s resignation from the 
Company within 12 months of joining.
Further information in relation to the buy-out 
awards will be disclosed in the 2025 
Remuneration Report.
Remuneration for 2025
On 1 July 2024, in line with the normal salary 
review date, the Committee awarded a circa 4% 
increase to the Group Chief Executive and Chief 
Financial Officer, in line with wider workforce. At 
the same time, the non-executive Directors’ base 
fees and the Chairman’s fee were also increased 
in line with the wider workforce. Leo Quinn will 
not receive a base salary increase on 1 July 2025.
The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the 
base salary and overall remuneration package for 
Chief Financial Officer, Philip Harrison, in light of 
increased responsibilities taken on during the 
year and the key role in supporting the transition 
to a new Group Chief Executive. The Remuneration 
Committee were also mindful that his current 
package is positioned below sector peers of 
a similar size and complexity and, whilst the 
Committee does not set its Remuneration Policy 
to directly align to these benchmarks, it is appropriate 
to factor this into the review. To reflect this, Philip 
Harrison’s base salary was increased to £598,000 
with effect from 1 February 2025. Philip Harrison 
will also be granted a 2025 PSP award at 200% 
of base salary.
No changes are proposed to the structure of the 
performance measures to be used in the Annual 
Incentive Plan for 2025. It will continue to be 
based primarily on challenging Profit Before Tax 
(50%), Group Total Cash Flow (25%) and 
strategic business and personal objectives (25%). 
These objectives will be disclosed in the 2025 
Remuneration report and include measurable 
objectives aligned to delivering on our Environmental, 
Social and Governance, Safety, People and 
Quality commitments. The executive Directors 
will be able to earn a maximum bonus of 150% 
of base salary. As noted above, for Leo Quinn 
and Philip Hoare the annual bonus earned will be 
pro-rated to reflect active service during the year.
The PSP awards to be granted in 2025 will be based 
on the achievement of three performance measures 
EPS (33.3%); Operating Cash Flow (33.3%) and 
TSR relative to the FTSE 250 excluding investment 
trusts (33.3%). The Committee is satisfied that the 
balance of measures remains appropriate and 
supports the long-term business strategy. Leo 
Quinn will not be granted a 2025 PSP award. As 
noted above, Philip Hoare and Philip Harrison will 
be granted a PSP award of shares worth 200% of 
base salary. Vested shares under PSP awards will 
be subject to the normal post-vesting holding period.
The Remuneration Committee will continue to be 
mindful of the importance of setting appropriately 
stretching targets for both the AIP and PSP to 
ensure that the incentive out-turns are 
commensurate with the performance delivered, 
wider stakeholder experience and the long-term 
sustainable success of the Group. Given the 
commercial sensitivity, the 2025 AIP targets will 
be disclosed on a retrospective basis in the 2025 
Remuneration report. The EPS and Operating 
Cash Flow targets for the 2025 PSP are disclosed 
prospectively on page 159.
Remuneration Policy review
The current Remuneration Policy was approved 
by shareholders at the 2023 AGM. In advance of 
the 2026 AGM policy vote, the Committee will 
be conducting a full review to ensure that the 
policy remains effective and aligned to the 
Group’s strategic objectives. As part of the 
review, the Committee will consider continuing 
developments in corporate governance and best 
practice. The Committee will also be reviewing 
the appropriateness and operation of the 
performance measures for the AIP and PSP.
Shareholder consultation is an ongoing process and 
past consultation informed the Remuneration Policy 
put to shareholders for approval at the 2023 AGM 
and we intend to consult shareholders during 2025 
as part of our review prior to putting forward the 
Remuneration Policy for approval at the 2026 AGM.
Gender Pay Gap
Balfour Beatty’s UK gender pay gap narrowed 
again in 2024 when compared to 2023 across 
both median and mean measures, continuing the 
trend seen in recent years. Since the introduction 
of gender pay gap reporting in Balfour Beatty, the 
gap has reduced by over 7% in both measures. 
The analysis of reported trends furthers our 
understanding of the gender pay gap and, 
together with looking beyond the numbers, helps 
us to continue to focus on the underlying cause, 
informing key activities implemented through the 
Value Everyone UK DE&I action plan which 
remains pivotal to narrowing the gap.
The Group Chief Executive to average UK 
employee pay ratio increased for 2024 when 
compared to 2023, reflecting the fact that the 
out-turn of the AIP in 2024 was higher when 
compared to 2023, and the greater proportion of 
executive Director pay linked to this incentive plan.
Conclusion
We believe that implementation of the 
Remuneration Policy will continue to deliver 
a robust link between strategy, reward and 
performance, supporting Balfour Beatty’s 
drive to deliver profitable managed growth and 
sustainable cash generation. The Company’s 
remuneration policies have been, and will 
continue to be, implemented rigorously, aligned 
with the Group’s strategic goals and culture. 
We hope you will support the Remuneration 
report at the 2025 AGM. 
Wider workforce remuneration
Balfour Beatty’s commitment to enabling an 
inclusive and ethical culture was demonstrated 
through a number of awards and accreditations 
in 2024 including the US Buildings division being 
named ‘Best Place to Work’ by five business 
publications in California. Enhancements to 
colleague benefits included the introduction 
of financial coaching in the UK following a 
successful pilot, adding to the broad benefits 
offered to colleagues.
In addition to the executive Directors, the 
Committee reviewed both the level and structure 
of remuneration for members of the Executive 
Committee and receives regular updates on 
Company-wide pay and benefits for the wider 
workforce and takes these into account when 
reviewing executive and senior management 
remuneration. A summary of the typical updates 
shared with the Committee are included in the 
table on page 156.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

156
156
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
COMMITTEE REPORTS CONTINUED
Remuneration Committee continued
Wider workforce remuneration continued
Review of level and structure of remuneration for the members of the Executive Committee
Receive regular updates on the wider workforce demographic, pay and benefits across the Group 
Review and approve:
 
@ Annual review of base pay levels;
 
@ Annual Incentive Plan structure, target ranges and alignment to strategy 
and culture;
 
@ Payments for Annual Incentive Plans, considering overall business 
performance; and 
 
@ Performance Share Plan participation levels and performance conditions for 
plan launch and achievement against performance conditions of vesting plans.
 
@ Highlight remuneration practice across the wider workforce and how this relates to the business and HR strategic objectives.
 
@ Overview of distribution of annual base pay review including diversity and grade analysis, deployment of annual incentive plans 
and participation in all-employee and discretionary share plans.
 
@ Compliance with statutory minimum pay levels including Balfour Beatty’s positioning against the voluntary UK Real Living Wage.
 
@ Summary of benefits provision and alignment to health, wellbeing and engagement plans.
 
@ Review of latest UK gender pay gap calculation and progression in reducing the gap, together with Group Chief Executive to 
average UK employee pay ratio.
 
@ Developments in employment policy requirements and updates to Balfour Beatty policies. 
 
@ Involvement in a variety of live events, forums and conferences held during the year enabling impactful engagement across the Group.
A summary of the remuneration arrangements across the wider workforce in 2024, compared with the executive Directors, is included in the table below.
Executive Directors 
Executive Committee & Wider Workforce
Annual base salary review effective 1 July 2024. 
Increase of 4% approved by the Committee for 
Executive Directors.
Salary
Main salary review effective 1 January 2024, Total UK budget of 5% with 4% available for allocation January 2024 in line with 
review guidelines. 
Award ranges based on earnings levels, performance and market positioning. Continued focus on lower paid roles, taking the 
voluntary UK Real Living Wage level into consideration when setting pay and implementation guidelines in UK. 
4% median increase to Executive Committee, effective 1 July 2024.
All employees eligible for a bonus. Performance 
measures aligned to Group / business unit.
Annual Incentive Plans
Executive Committee and other eligible grades qualify for a bonus. Performance measures aligned to Group/ Business Unit.
Deferral of proportion of annual bonus paid for 
three years.
Eligible to participate in long-term incentive plan 
and all-employees Share Incentive Plan (SIP).
Shareholding requirements in place.
Share-based 
incentive plans
Deferral of proportion of annual bonus paid for three years for UK Executive Committee and senior managers.
Executive Committee and some senior management are nominated for inclusion in a long-term incentive plan.
All UK employees eligible to participate in all-employees SIP. Shareholding requirements in place for Executive Committee 
based in UK.
Executive Director pension provision of 7%.
Pension
UK Employer contribution average of 7% of base salary.
Anne Drinkwater
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
11 March 2025
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

157
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE
Ahead of the Annual report on remuneration, we have summarised below the key remuneration outcomes for 2024, the key 
elements of the Remuneration Policy approved at the 2023 AGM and how we intend to implement it in 2025. The Committee 
confirms that the Remuneration Policy operated as intended throughout 2024. The full Remuneration Policy can be found in 
the Directors’ Remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2022 available on our website.
AIP metrics and outcomes
PROFIT BEFORE TAX 
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN
TSR against the 115 remaining companies ranked 51–200 
in the FTSE All Share Index (excluding investment trusts)
EARNINGS PER SHARE 3
Underlying basic earnings per share from continuing operations 
CASH
Operating cash flow (OCF)2
PSP OUT-TURN
STRATEGIC BUSINESS AND PERSONAL OBJECTIVES
AIP OUT-TURN
GROUP TOTAL CASH FLOW1
ACTUAL 
£201m
>100%
of maximum
ACTUAL 
£289.6m
82.7%
of maximum
ACTUAL 
>Max
100%
of maximum
ACTUAL 
43.6p
98.5%
of maximum
ACTUAL 
£289m
100%
of maximum
Actual
£289.6m
Actual
Above Upper Quartile
Actual
43.6p
Actual
£289m
Actual
£201m
Maximum
£299.0m
Maximum
Upper Quartile
Maximum
43.9p
Maximum
£204m
Target
£271.8m
Target
—
Target
—
Target
£185m
CFO
99.5% of Maximum
Threshold
£217.4m
Threshold
Median
Threshold
28.7p
Threshold
£130m
CEO
99.5% of Maximum
ACTUAL 
96%
of maximum
ACTUAL 
90.4%
of maximum
ACTUAL 
100%
of maximum
ACTUAL 
91.4%
of maximum
Target £(40)m
Threshold £(50)m
Maximum  £60m
PSP metrics and outcomes
Group Chief 
Executive
Group Chief 
Executive
Chief Financial 
Officer
Chief Financial 
Officer
A reconciliation of the Group’s performance measures to its statutory results is provided in the Measuring our financial performance section.
1 Group total cash flow of £201 million is the movement 
between opening and closing net cash adjusted for £100 million 
share buyback.
2 Operating cash flow of £289 million is defined in the 
Measuring our financial performance section.
3 Underlying basic earnings per share from continuing operations.
4 Group Chief Executive’s and Chief Financial Officer’s 
remuneration scenarios are calculated on base salaries 
at 1 January 2024 of £861.1k and £499.2k respectively.
5 In line with the Investors Association (IA) guidelines, 
calculations shown include shares beneficially owned at 
31 December 2024 plus unvested shares which are not 
subject to a further performance condition, on a net of tax 
basis, calculated using base salary at 31 December 2024.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ 
SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES5
(% of base salary held)
EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 
REMUNERATION SCENARIOS 4
£
 PSP
 AIP
 
Fixed pay
1,857%
200%
515%
150%
Actual
Actual
Group Chief 
Executive
Guideline
Guideline
Chief Financial 
Officer
Actual
Actual
Group Chief 
Executive
On-target
On-target
£4,896k
£2,449k
Chief Financial 
Officer
£2,605k
£1,360k
35%
26%
39%
51%
27%
22%
32%
28%
40%
20%
25%
55%
Vesting
>100% of maximum
Vesting
98.5% of maximum
Vesting
>100% of maximum
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

158
158
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY
Summary of Remuneration Policy and proposed implementation in 2025
Remuneration Policy
Our approach for 2025
Base salary
To attract and retain high-calibre individuals. 
To provide a competitive salary relative to comparable companies 
in terms of size and complexity.
During the year the Committee reviewed the market positioning for remuneration of the Group Chief Executive and 
Chief Financial Officer.
On 1 July 2024, in line with the normal salary review date, the Committee awarded a c.4% increase for both the 
Group Chief Executive from £861.1k to £895.5k and for the Chief Financial Officer from £499.2k to £519.15k, in line 
with the wider workforce. 
Leo Quinn will not receive a base salary increase on 1 July 2025.
The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the base salary and overall remuneration package for Chief Financial 
Officer, Philip Harrison, in light of increased responsibilities taken on during the year and the key role in supporting the 
transition to a new Group Chief Executive. The Remuneration Committee were also mindful that his current package 
is positioned below sector peers of a similar size and complexity and whilst the Committee does not set its 
Remuneration Policy to directly align to these benchmarks, it is appropriate to factor this into the review. To reflect 
this, Philip’s base salary was increased to £598,000 with effect from 1 February 2025. Philip’s next base salary 
review date is 1 July 2026.
Pension and 
benefits
Executive Directors can elect for Balfour Beatty to contribute to a 
defined contribution pension or receive a cash equivalent that will 
not exceed the level of contribution available to the wider workforce.
Benefits are provided that are appropriate to the role and which take 
into account typical practice, the nature and location of the role and 
individual circumstances.
The pension provision for executive Directors is aligned to the level of the wider workforce, currently 7% of base salary.
Annual Incentive 
Plan (AIP)
Bonuses are subject to the achievement of stretching key performance 
measures without encouraging excessive risk. Each year the 
Committee selects performance measures that are aligned with the 
Company’s strategy and reflect the change needs of the business. 
At least 50% is based on financial measures. 
A proportion of any bonus earned is deferred into shares to 
facilitate share ownership, aid retention and provide further 
alignment with shareholders.
No changes are proposed to the structure of the performance measures to be used in the AIP for 2025. The executive 
Directors will be able to earn a maximum bonus of 150% of base salary, based on the achievement of three 
performance measures:
 
@ profit before tax (50%);
 
@ cash (25%); and 
 
@ strategic business and personal objectives (Environmental, Social and Governance, Safety, People and Quality) (25%).
The three elements are measured and calculated independently of each other and 50% of any bonus earned will be 
deferred for three years in shares.
While the Committee has chosen not to disclose in advance the performance targets for 2025 as these include items 
which the Committee considers commercially sensitive, retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance 
against them will be presented in the Remuneration report for 2025.
Annual bonus earned by Leo Quinn and Philip Hoare will be pro-rated to reflect active service during the year.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

159
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Remuneration Policy
Our approach for 2025
Long-term incentive
Incentivise and reward delivery of long-term 
performance linked to the Company’s strategy and 
further facilitate share ownership and alignment 
with shareholders. 
Vesting, subject to performance, on the third 
anniversary of the grant followed by a two-year 
holding period, with a minimum of 30% based on 
relative total shareholder return. The balance of any 
award may be based on financial and/or non-financial 
metrics provided that at least 75% of the award is 
based on financial and/or TSR measures.
For 2025, Philip Hoare and Philip Harrison will be granted a Performance Share Plan (PSP) award of shares worth 200% 
of base salary. Leo Quinn will not be granted a 2025 PSP award.
The PSP awards to be granted in 2025 will be based on the achievement of three performance measures: EPS (33.3%), cash 
(33.3%) and relative TSR (33.3%).
The TSR peer group will be FTSE 250 companies (excluding investment trusts).
Metric
Measure
Threshold 
Target
Maximum
Total shareholder return
TSR ranking
Median
Upper quartile
Cash
Operating cash flow (OCF)
£186m
£266m
£316m
EPS
Underlying basic EPS from continuing operations
36.8p
56.5p
The Committee considers that the performance measures are aligned to long-term business strategy and appropriately 
stretching reflecting the current environment.
Shareholding guidelines
Shareholding guidelines apply to executive 
Directors to align their long-term interests with 
those of shareholders. 
The Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer 
must accumulate a shareholding to the value of 200% 
and 150% of base salary respectively (200% of base 
salary for all new executive Directors). 
New executive Directors will be required to hold 
the lower of 100% of their in-post share ownership 
requirement or their actual holding on departure, 
for two years post-cessation of employment.
200% of base salary for the Group Chief Executive and 150% of base salary for the Chief Financial Officer. 
The post-vesting holding condition applying to PSP awards requires the vested shares (net of tax) to be held until the fifth 
anniversary of grant and will continue to apply post-cessation of employment.
Non-executive Directors
Fees are set at a level to attract and retain high-quality 
and experienced non-executive Directors.
The Company’s approach to setting non-executive Directors’ fees is by reference to fees paid at similar companies and 
reflects the time commitment and responsibilities of each role. At the annual review on 1 July 2024, non-executive 
Directors’ fees were increased in line with the wider workforce. The next review date is 1 July 2025.
1 July 2023 (£)
1 July 2024 (£)
Group Chair
312,150
 324,600
Base fee
69,950
72,750
SID fee
10,400
10,800
Committee Chair fee
15,600
16,250
Louise Hardy also receives a fee of £10.4k per annum in respect of her responsibility as Workforce Engagement Lead.
All non-executive Directors may be paid a travel allowance for intercontinental travel on Company business (excluding 
travel within home continent).
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

160
160
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Summary of Remuneration Policy and proposed implementation in 2025 continued
Alignment with provision 40 of the Corporate Governance Code
Code requirements
Our approach
Simplicity and clarity
Remuneration arrangements should be transparent and promote effective engagement 
with shareholders and the workforce. Remuneration structures should avoid complexity 
and their rationale and operation should be easy to understand.
The remuneration framework is made up of three key elements: fixed pay (including base salary, pension and 
benefits), annual bonus (AIP) and a separate long-term incentive (PSP).
The framework is simple to understand for both participants and shareholders and the incentive elements are aligned 
to the strategic priorities for the business. 
Risk 
Remuneration arrangements should ensure reputational and other risks from excessive 
rewards, and behavioural risks that can arise from target-based incentive plans, are 
identified and mitigated.
Identified risks have been mitigated as follows:
 
@ Variable remuneration targets are set at levels which reward high performance but which do not encourage inappropriate 
business risk;
 
@ Deferral of part of any bonus earned under the AIP into shares and the holding period applied to any PSP award ensure 
variable remuneration is linked to sustainable performance and discourages short-term behaviours;
 
@ All AIP and PSP awards to executive Directors include provisions for malus and clawback; and
 
@ The Committee has the discretion to vary formulaic outcomes for incentive vesting should outcomes not reflect the 
underlying performance of the Company.
Predictability 
The range of possible values of rewards to individual Directors and any other limits 
or discretions should be identified and explained at the time of approving the policy.
In the 2022 Directors’ remuneration report the potential remuneration in future periods was set out under several 
performance scenarios for the Group Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer in respect of awards to be made 
in 2025 under the proposed Remuneration Policy.
The Committee is comfortable that the discretions available to it are sufficient.
Proportionality 
The link between individual awards, the delivery of strategy and the long-term performance 
of the Company should be clear. Outcomes should not reward poor performance.
A significant proportion of an executive Director’s reward is linked to performance through the incentive framework, 
with a clear line of sight between performance and the delivery of long-term shareholder value.
Performance measures and the underlying targets are reviewed regularly by the Committee to ensure that they are 
directly aligned to the Group’s strategic priorities, and targets are calibrated to reward for strong performance over 
the performance period.
Executive Directors are required to build material shareholdings in the Company and are subject to a post-cessation 
shareholding requirements which will ensure that their interests are aligned to the Group’s long-term performance.
Alignment to culture
Incentive schemes should drive behaviours consistent with Company purpose, values 
and strategy.
The Committee is focused on ensuring that the Company’s cultural framework, with its values and behaviours, is 
reflected across the entire business and believes that the executive Directors are rewarded on both what they deliver 
and how that is delivered.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

161
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Annual report on 
remuneration 
This part of the Remuneration report sets out 
how the Remuneration Policy was implemented 
over the year ended 31 December 2024. The 
Committee confirms that the Remuneration 
Policy operated as intended throughout 2024.
Details of the remuneration earned by Directors 
and the outcomes of incentive schemes, 
including details of relevant links to Company 
performance, are also provided in this part.
The following sections have been audited by 
KPMG: Remuneration received by Directors for 
the year ended 31 December 2024 including 
related notes (page 161); Outstanding share 
awards (page 167), PSP awards granted during 
the year (page 168); AIP awards for the year 
ended 31 December 2024 (page 162), AIP 
metrics and outcomes (pages 162 to 165), 
PSP metrics and outcomes, payments to past 
Directors and payments for loss of office 
(pages 168 and 169); and statement of Directors’ 
shareholdings and share interests (page 169).
Remuneration received by Directors 
for the year ended 31 December 2024
The table to the right sets out the Directors’ 
remuneration for the year ended 31 December 
2024 (or for performance periods ended in that 
year in respect of long-term incentives) together 
with comparative figures for the year ended 
31 December 2023.
Fixed pay
Variable pay
Year
Base salary 
and fees 1
£
Taxable 
benefits 
2,3
£
Pension cash
allowance 
£
Sub-total
£
Annual 
incentive 
cash 4
£
Annual
 incentive
deferred
shares 5
£
Long-term
incentives 5
£
Sub-total
£
Other
£
Total 
£
Executive Directors
Philip Harrison
2024
509,175
14,980
35,642
559,797
355,877
355,877
1,333,196
2,044,950
–
2,604,747
2023
489,600
14,904
34,272
538,776
295,027
295,027
959,143
1,549,197
–
2,087,973
Leo Quinn
2024
878,300
20,980
61,481
960,761
607,149
607,149
2,720,815
3,935,113
–
4,895,874
2023
844,550
20,904
59,118
924,572
502,452
502,452
2,015,933
3,020,837
–
3,945,409
Independent Non-executive Directors
Charles Allen6
2024
318,375
19,679
–
338,054
–
–
–
–
–
338,054
2023
 306,150
15,217
–
321,367
–
–
–
–
–
321,367
Stephen Billingham
2024
30,687
284
–
30,971
–
–
–
–
–
30,971
2023
 83,913
3,394
–
87,307
–
–
–
–
–
87,307
Gabrielle Costigan8
2024
68,674
3,213
–
71,887
–
–
–
–
–
71,887
2023
 –
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
Stuart Doughty7
2024
30,785
197
–
30,982
 –
–
–
–
 –
30,982
2023
 83,913
7,133
–
91,046
–
–
–
–
–
91,046
Anne Drinkwater10
2024
94,172
21,165
–
115,337
–
 –
 –
–
–
115,337
2023
 83,913
12,874
–
96,787
–
–
–
–
–
96,787
Louise Hardy
2024
81,550
4,118
–
85,668
–
–
–
–
–
85,668
2023
 78,613
4,139
–
82,752
–
–
–
–
–
82,572
Michael Lucki
2024
71,350
21,720
–
93,070
–
–
–
–
–
93,070
2023
 68,613
19,389
–
88,002
–
–
–
–
–
88,002
Robert MacLeod8
2024
68,674
6,220
–
74,894
–
–
–
–
–
74,894
2023
 –
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
Barbara Moorhouse
2024
71,350
7,358
–
78,708
–
–
–
–
–
78,708
2023
 68,613
6,502
–
75,115
–
–
–
–
–
75,115
Rudolph Wynter9
2024
6,063
–
–
6,063
–
–
–
–
–
6,063
2023
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
1 Base salary and fees were those paid in respect of the period of the year during which the individuals were Directors.
2 Taxable benefits are calculated in terms of UK taxable values. Leo Quinn received private medical insurance for himself and his spouse and received a car allowance of £20,000 per annum. Philip Harrison 
received private medical insurance for himself and his spouse and received a car allowance of £14,000 per annum. Charles Allen is eligible for a contribution to his reasonable business expenses 
receiving £14,123, taxable travel expenses of £2,556 and a taxable travel allowance of £3,000.
3 The non-executive Directors received taxable travel expenses and/or travel allowances which are shown in the taxable benefits column. The Group Chair and non-executive Directors are also eligible to 
receive assistance with the preparation of tax returns.
4 AIP 2024: further details of these awards are set out on pages 162 to 165. For 2023, details of the AIP awards were set out in the 2023 Remuneration report.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

162
162
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Remuneration received by Directors 
for the year ended 31 December 2024 
continued
5 For 2024, this relates to the 2022 PSP award for which the 
performance period ends in 2025, with the valuation of 
vesting shares calculated on a three-month average share 
price to 31 December 2024 of 443.5p. This compares to the 
259.5p average middle market price for the three dealing 
dates before the PSP award date which was used for 
calculating the number of shares granted, so there is a benefit 
relating to share price appreciation since award of 184.0p per 
share and a value of £1,128,816 and £553,119 for Leo Quinn 
and Philip Harrison respectively. Further details of the 2022 
PSP awards are set out on pages 166 and 167. For 2023, this 
relates to the 2021 PSP award for which the performance 
period ended in 2023, details of which were set out in the 
2023 Remuneration report. For 2023, the valuation of the 
vesting shares for the 2021 PSP has been adjusted from the 
valuation included in the 2023 Remuneration report to reflect 
the actual valuation on the 19 March 2024 vesting date, based 
on a share price of 373.2p. This compares to 296.2p average 
middle market price for the three dealing days before the PSP 
award date (which was used to calculate the number of 
shares granted), so there was a benefit relating to share price 
appreciation since award of 77p per share and a value of 
£415,935 and £197,894 for Leo Quinn and Philip Harrison 
respectively. Under the rules of the PSP, participants may 
receive an award of shares in lieu of the value of dividends 
paid over the vesting period on vested shares. For the 2021 
PSP award this was 46,087 shares for Leo Quinn and 21,926 
shares for Philip Harrison with a valuation of £171,997 and 
£81,828 respectively calculated on the share price on 19 
March 2024 of 373.2p.
6 Total figures and long-term incentive figures for 2023 have 
been adjusted from the figures included in the 2023 Remuneration 
report to reflect the actual valuation on 19 March 2024 
vesting date of shares vesting under the 2021 PSP.
7 Stuart Doughty and Stephen Billingham retired from the 
Board effective 9 May 2024. In addition to the amount 
disclosed above, Stuart Doughty earned £53,772 as an 
adviser in the period following his retirement from the Board.
8 Gabrielle Costigan and Robert MacLeod were appointed to 
the Board effective 8 March 2024.
9 Rudolph Wynter was appointed to the Board effective 1 
December 2024.
10 Anne Drinkwater was appointed Senior Independent Director 
effective 9 May 2024.
PROFIT BEFORE TAX AND 
NON-UNDERLYING ITEMS
GROUP TOTAL CASH FLOW1
STRATEGIC BUSINESS AND 
PERSONAL OBJECTIVES
Maximum
£299.0m
Maximum
£60m
AIP OUT-TURN
Threshold
£217.4m
Threshold
£(50)m
Target
£271.8m
Target
£(40)m
1 Group total cash flow of £201 million is the movement between opening and closing total net cash adjusted for the £100 million share buyback.
 
A reconciliation of the Group’s performance measures to its statutory results is provided in the Measuring our financial 
performance section.
Group Chief 
Executive
Group Chief 
Executive
Chief 
Financial 
Officer
Chief 
Financial 
Officer
£289.6m
actual
£201m
actual
82.7%
of max.
100 %
of max.
96%
of max.
90.4%
of max.
100%
of max.
91.4%
of max.
AIP awards for the year ended 31 December 2024
For 2024, the AIP for the executive Directors was a maximum bonus of 150% of base salary based on 
the achievement of three performance measures:
 
@ profit before tax (50%);
 
@ cash (25%); and
 
@ strategic business and personal objectives (25%).
The three elements are measured and calculated 
independently of each other and 50% of the 
bonus earned is deferred for three years in the 
form of Balfour Beatty shares. For the profit 
before tax element, 20% of the award would 
vest for threshold performance, increasing to 
50% vesting of that element at target performance 
and then to 100% of that element at maximum 
performance or above. For the Group total cash 
flow element, 20% of that element would vest 
for threshold performance, increasing to 50% 
vesting of that element at target performance 
and then to 100% of that element at maximum 
performance or above.
AIP metrics and outcomes
The formulaic assessment of the Annual Incentive 
Plan indicated 90.4% of maximum is to be paid 
to Leo Quinn and 91.4% of maximum to Philip 
Harrison. In line with good practice, the 
Remuneration Committee reviewed the overall 
outcome for the executive Directors and considered 
this reflective of the strong performance of the 
Group in 2024, including very strong safety 
performance and good progress against sustainability 
targets, and not warranting any discretionary 
adjustment against the formulaic outcomes.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED
Annual report on remuneration continued
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

163
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Performance against the 2024 AIP strategic business and personal objectives as it relates to the executive Directors was:
CEO – strategic business and personal objectives 2024
Objective
Weight
Outcome and comments
Achievement
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE
Social value
Progress towards 2030 target of achieving 
£3 billion social value, demonstrating 
measurable increase in total social value 
generated across the UK in 2024 versus 2023.
20%
Very strong progress with £990 million of social value generated in 2024 versus £937 million in 2023, an increase of 
£53 million. Social value achieved since 2021 totals £3.4 billion, already exceeding the 2030 target of £3 billion.
20%
Safety
Continue progress towards Zero Harm 
goals, demonstrating safety leadership 
and improving overall safety culture and 
performance in 2024 versus 2023. 
Identify opportunities for investment to 
support continuous improvement 
moving forward.
20%
Demonstrated strong safety leadership and performance across a range of activities which have improved health, safety, 
wellbeing culture and performance.
Further progression in safety performance in 2024, building on the progress made in 2023 across the key Group metrics, including:
 
@ LTIR: 0.09 (improved versus 0.11 in 2023 and 0.15 in 2022); and
 
@ observations: 475,000 (improved versus 400,000 in 2023 and 380,000 in 2022).
 
@ Continued investment to support safety improvement plans, in particular good progress with the embedding of digital 
permitting (contributing to a 25% year-on-year reduction in service strikes) and the development of digital solutions including 
human form recognition, digital rehearsals and lessons learned animation.
20%
Environment
To make progress against targets validated 
by Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi).
Support embedding and continual 
development of carbon reporting 
arrangements across the business. 
20%
Significant progress, demonstrated by performance against targets and improved awareness:
 
@ near and long-term carbon reduction targets, along with abatement plans, validated and endorsed by the SBTi;
 
@ Group achieved a 13% reduction on carbon emissions intensity, and a <1% reduction in absolute carbon emissions for 
Scopes 1 and 2 against 2023 carbon emissions performance. The reduction in emissions intensity is the most significant 
improvement in energy efficiency achieved by the Group since 2020;
 
@ carbon budgets, reflecting overall SBTi carbon reduction target, established for UK construction Business Units; and
 
@ established standardised carbon reporting including ‘shadow price of carbon’ report, shared with Board and senior 
management teams, coupled with mandatory training to relevant employees.
20%
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

164
164
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Objective
Weight
Outcome and comments
Achievement
ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE CONTINUED
People
Continue to develop and improve 
employee engagement across the Group.
Improve diversity of the workforce in 2024 
versus 2023, promoting activities to 
improve inclusion.
Detailed succession plans for senior 
executives and key roles presented to 
the Board.
20%
Group employee engagement index scores showed further improvement:
 
@ Group EIS increased to 84% in 2024 (versus 81% in 2023) with an increased participation rate of 82% (versus 77% in 2023); and
 
@ Group EIS index score was 11 percentage points above industry average.
2024
2023
UK EIS
82%
78%
US EIS 
 87%
86%
HK EIS
85%
84%
Steady progress against key measures with strong overall performance in the delivery of activities and processes to develop culture:
 
@ UK female representation increased to 21.8% in 2024 (from 20.9% in 2023), UK minority ethnic increased to 13.3% 
(from 12.4% in 2023) and UK Black increased to 3.2% (from 2.9% in 2023), monitored against 2030 UK Diversity, Equity & 
Inclusion targets;
 
@ increased diversity across early careers hires, with 27% of UK hires female and 21% from a minority ethnic background; 21% 
of US early careers hires female and 62% minority ethnic; and
 
@ employees in ‘earn and learn’ roles continues to exceed the The 5% Club target of 5%, ending the year at 7.3% achieving 
Gold membership for the fourth consecutive year.
Progressive roll out of ‘Right to Respect’ programme in 2024 across the UK and US, winning the Inclusive Culture Award at the enei 
Inclusivity Excellence Awards in UK.
Diverse talent reviews and measures established.
Comprehensive presentation of senior role succession plans held with Board, highlighting key successors and associated 
development plans.
16%
Quality
Continue to drive digital 
evolution,encouraging new opportunities 
leveraged from use of AI, which will 
improve the quality of delivery in areas 
including construction methodology, 
safety and administration.
20%
Clear digital strategy embedded into safety culture, shared across the UK, US and Hong Kong, and with some UK clients.
Invested in CoPilot AI feasibility arrangements.
20%
Total
100%
96%
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED
Annual report on remuneration continued
AIP metrics and outcomes continued
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

165
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
CFO – strategic business and personal objectives 2024
Objective
Weight Outcome/comments
Achievement
Capital 
restructure
Gain agreement for updated SLL 
metrics in the revolving credit facility, 
aligned to sustainability strategy.
Complete extension of the CBB loan 
facility on no worse terms.
Evaluate refinancing options for the 
$50 million USPP.
Maximise investments returns on 
cash under management within 
robust treasury framework.
30% Agreed updated SSL metrics in the revolving credit facility, aligning with the Company sustainability strategy.
Extension of £30 million CBB loan facility successfully completed.
Successful execution of new $50 million USPP loans and liability management exercise.
Maximised investment returns on cash management with increased interest income delivered versus prior year.
30%
Safety
Improve overall safety culture and 
performance in 2024 versus 2023.
10% Key member of senior management team supporting continual development of safety culture with positive leadership in 
performance improvement.
Safety performance metrics demonstrate strong, progressive performance across a range of health, safety and wellbeing initiatives 
with improvements in 2024 versus 2023 across the key Group metrics, including:
 
@ LTIR: 0.09 (improved versus 0.11 in 2023 and 0.15 in 2022); and
 
@ observations: 475,000 (improved versus 400,000 in 2023 and 380,000 in 2022).
10%
Environment
Demonstrate progress against the 
targets as validated by Science Based 
Targets initiative (SBTi).
Continual development of carbon 
reporting arrangements across 
the business.
10% Led the enhancement of scenarios for measuring the financial impact of climate change on the Group.
Significant progress, demonstrated by performance against targets and improved awareness:
 
@ near and long-term carbon reduction targets, along with abatement plans, validated and endorsed by the SBTi;
 
@ Group achieved a 13% reduction on carbon emissions intensity, and a <1% reduction in absolute carbon emissions for Scopes 1 and 
2 against our 2023 carbon emissions performance. The reduction in emissions intensity is the most significant improvement in 
energy efficiency achieved by the Group since 2020;
 
@ standardised carbon reporting established including ‘shadow price of carbon’ report, shared with Board and senior management teams; and
 
@ carbon budgets, reflecting overall SBTi carbon reduction target established for UK Construction Business Units. 
10%
People
Show further progression during 2024 
in Group employee engagement, and 
specifically within the Finance 
function, measured against the 
employee engagement index score.
Improve diversity of the workforce in 
2024 versus 2023, promoting 
activities to improve inclusion. 
20% Strong performance with employee engagement index scores showing further improvement:
 
@ Group EIS increased to 84% in 2024 (versus 81% in 2023) with an increased participation rate of 82% (versus 77% in 2023);
 
@ Group EIS index score was 11 percentage points above industry average; and
 
@ EIS for the UK Finance function increased to 86% (from 84% in 2023).
Steady progress against key measures, promoting improved inclusion activities to develop culture:
 
@ UK female representation increased to 21.8% in 2024 (from 20.9% in 2023), UK minority ethnic increased to 13.3% (from 12.4% in 
2023) and UK Black increased to 3.2%(from 2.9% in 2023), monitored against 2030 UK Diversity, Equity & Inclusion targets.
20%
Quality
Continue to improve processes and 
systems to maintain prompt payment 
gains from 2023.
30% Strong performance with improvement and changes including:
 
@ exceeding the Government Procurement Policy Notice to pay 95% of UK invoices within 60 days, with 98% achievement (H2 2024), 
a 1% increase over the same period in 2023; and
 
@ 73% achievement in 30 day pay metric in 2024, a 2 percentage point improvement over prior year, with process and system 
improvements implemented.
30%
Total
100%
100%
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

166
166
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Vesting of PSP awards for the year 
under review
The PSP awards granted on 1 April 2022 were 
based on a performance period for the three 
years ended 31 December 2024. The performance 
conditions applying to one-third of each award 
were comparative total shareholder return measured 
versus the companies ranked 51–200 by market 
capitalisation in the FTSE All Share Index (excluding 
investment trusts), operating cash flow and 
earnings per share. 25% of each of the total 
shareholder return and earnings per share parts 
of the award would vest for threshold performance 
increasing to 100% of each part of the award 
vesting for maximum performance or above. 
For the operating cash flow part, 25% of that part 
would vest for threshold performance, increasing 
to 50% vesting of that part at target performance 
and then to 100% of that part at maximum 
performance or above.
In assessing the appropriateness of the 
formulaic outcomes of the performance targets, 
the Remuneration Committee considered the 
underlying performance of the Group over the 
three-year period and, on balance, the Committee 
considered the vesting outcome appropriately 
reflected the Group’s underlying performance. 
Whilst the Remuneration Committee is conscious 
of potential windfall gains from significant increases 
of share price, the Committee is satisfied the 
share price at grant was not depressed and the 
growth reflects the sustained underlying 
performance of the Company.
Details of the PSP awards vesting for the year 
under review are therefore as shown in the 
following table.
PSP metrics and outcomes
Metric
Performance condition
Measure
Threshold 
Target
Maximum
Actual
Vesting %
Total shareholder 
return
TSR against the
115 remaining 
companies ranked 
51–200 in the 
FTSE All Share 
Index (excluding 
investment trusts)
TSR ranking
58 or above
–
29.5 or above
7
100%
Cash
 
Operating cash 
flow (OCF)
£130m
£185m
£204m
£289m
100%
Earnings per share
 
Underlying basic 
earnings per 
share from 
continuing 
operations
28.7p
–
43.9p
43.6p
98.5%
Total vesting
 
 
 
 
 
99.5%
Name of Director
Type of award
Vesting date
Number 
of shares 
at grant
Number 
of shares 
to vest
Number 
of shares 
to lapse
Value of
vesting 
shares 
1
Philip Harrison
2022 conditional
1 April 2025
302,119
300,608
1,511
£1,333,196
Leo Quinn
2022 conditional
1 April 2025
616,570
613,487
3,083
£2,720,815
1 Valuation of vesting shares calculated on a three-month average share price to 31 December 2024 of 443.5p. This compares to the 259.5p average middle market price for the three dealing dates before the 
PSP award date which was used for calculating the number of shares granted, so there is a benefit relating to share price appreciation of 184.0p per share since award.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED
Annual report on remuneration continued
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

167
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
OPERATING CASH FLOW 
(OCF)1 
MAXIMUM
£204M
THRESHOLD
£130M
TARGET
£185M
£289m
ACTUAL
OF MAX.
100%
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER 
RETURN
MAXIMUM:
UPPER 
QUARTILE
THRESHOLD:
MEDIAN
ACTUAL
Above upper 
quartile
OF MAX.
100%
EARNINGS 
PER SHARE2
MAXIMUM
43.9P
THRESHOLD
28.75P
ACTUAL
43.6p
OF MAX.
98.5%
1 Operating cash flow of £289 million is 
defined in the Measuring our financial 
performance section.
2 Underlying basic earnings per share. 
A reconciliation of the Group’s 
performance measures to its 
statutory results is provided in 
the Measuring our financial 
performance section.

PSP OUT-TURN
GROUP CHIEF 
EXECUTIVE
CHIEF FINANCIAL 
OFFICER
99.5%
OF MAX.
99.5%
OF MAX.
Outstanding share awards
Maximum number of shares subject to award
Name of Director
Share award
Date granted
At 
1 January
2024
Awarded 
during the 
year
Vested 
during the 
year
Lapsed 
during the 
year
At 
31 December
2024
Exercisable and/or vesting from
Philip Harrison
PSP1,5,6
19 March 2021
257,005
–
257,005
–
–
19 March 2024
PSP2,5,6
1 April 2022
302,119
–
–
–
302,119
1 April 2025
PSP3,5,6
3 April 2023
224,418
–
–
–
224,418
3 April 2026
PSP4,5,6.7
26 March 2024
–
231,111
–
–
231,111
26 March 2027
DBP8,10,11
31 March 2021
65,617
–
65,617
–
–
31 March 2024
DBP8,9,11,13
31 March 2022
116,625
3,534
–
–
120,159
31 March 2025
DBP8,9,11,13
31 March 2023
96,350
2,918
–
–
99,268
31 March 2026
DBP8,9,11,12,13
28 March 2024
–
79,739
–
–
 79,739
28 March 2027
Leo Quinn
PSP1,5,6
19 March 2021
540,175
–
540,175
–
–
19 March 2024
PSP2,5,6
1 April 2022
616,570
–
–
–
616,570
1 April 2025
PSP3,5,6
3 April 2023
442,425
–
–
–
442,425
3 April 2026
PSP4,5,6,7
26 March 2024
–
455,608
– 
–
455,608
26 March 2027
DBP8,10,11
31 March 2021
128,266
– 
128,266
–
– 
31 March 2024
DBP8,9,11,13
31 March 2022
208,261
6,310
–
–
214,571
31 March 2025
DBP8,9,11,13
31 March 2023
162,779
4,932
–
–
167,711
31 March 2026
DBP8,9,11,12,13
28 March 2024
–
135,801
–
–
135,801
28 March 2027
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

168
168
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Outstanding share awards continued 
1 2021 PSP award: This award vested in full on 19 March 2024. Details of the Company’s performance against the performance conditions were set out in the 2023 Remuneration report. Philip Harrison and Leo Quinn also received 21,926 and 46,087 shares respectively in 
lieu of the dividends which would have been payable on the shares which vested. The closing middle market price of ordinary shares on the vesting date was 373.2p.
2 2022 PSP award: Further details of this award are set out on pages 166 and 167.
3 2023 PSP award: This award is subject to three performance targets over a three-year performance period commencing 1 January 2023. TSR part (33.3% weighting), measured against the companies of the FTSE 250 (excluding investment trusts), no vesting below median 
ranking, 25% vesting of this part at median, rising to 100% vesting at upper quartile performance or better. No portion of the cash part (33.3%) will vest unless the 2025 year end operating cash flow (OCF) is greater than £242 million. 25% to 50% will vest for OCF between 
£242 million and £346 million, rising to full vesting for OCF of £396 million or more. For the EPS part (33.3%), no vesting unless 2023 EPS is 33.0p, 25% vesting of this part at 33.0p, rising to full vesting at 50.7p or more.
4 2024 PSP award: Details are set out on page 168.
5 The average middle market price of ordinary shares in the Company for the three dealing dates before the PSP award dates, which was used for calculating the number of shares granted, was 296.2p for the 2021 award, 259.5p for the 2022 award, 374.3p for the 2023 
award and 378.0p for the 2024 award respectively. The closing middle market price of ordinary shares on the date of the awards was 298.0p, 256.8p, 371.2p, and 382.6p respectively.
6 All PSP awards are granted for nil consideration and are in respect of 50p ordinary shares in Balfour Beatty plc. It is the Company’s current intention that awards will be satisfied by shares purchased in the market.
7 A maximum of 2,467,740 conditional shares were awarded for all participants in the PSP in 2024, which are exercisable on 26 March 2027.
8 All DBP awards are granted for nil consideration and are in respect of 50p ordinary shares in Balfour Beatty plc. It is the Company’s current intention that awards will be satisfied by shares purchased in the market.
9 The DBP awards made on 31 March 2022, 31 March 2023 and 28 March 2024 will vest on 31 March 2025, 31 March 2026 and 28 March 2027 respectively, providing the participant is still employed by the Group at the vesting date (unless specified leaver conditions are 
met, in which case early vesting may be permitted).
10 The DBP awards made on 31 March 2021 vested on 31 March 2024. The closing middle market price of ordinary shares in the Company on the vesting date was 382.20p.
11 The shares subject to the DBP awards made on 31 March 2021, 31 March 2022, 31 March 2023 and 28 March 2024 were purchased at average prices of 300.8p, 261.3p, 373.8p and 381.2p. 
12 On 28 March 2024, for all participants in the DBP, a maximum of 595,706 conditional shares were awarded which will normally be released on 28 March 2027.
13 On 3 July 2024 and 6 December 2024 a further 45,130 conditional shares and 17,038 conditional shares were granted in lieu of entitlements to the final 2023 and interim 2024 dividend respectively for all participants in the DBP. These shares were allocated at prices of 
369.2p and 449.6p respectively, the closing market price on prior day to grant on 2 July 2024 and 5 December 2024 respectively.
The closing market price of the Company’s ordinary shares on 31 December 2024 was 454.8p. During the year, the highest and lowest closing market prices were 462.0p and 316.4p respectively.
PSP awards granted during the year
On 26 March 2024, the following PSP awards were granted to executive Directors:
Executive
Type of award
Basis of award 
granted
Share price
applied at
date of grant
Number of shares over
which award 
was granted
Face value
of award
% of face value that 
would vest
at threshold
performance
Vesting determined
by performance 
over three 
years to
Vesting date
Philip Harrison
Conditional
175% of salary of £499,200
378.0p
231,111
£873,600
25%
31 December 2026
26 March 2027
Leo Quinn
Conditional
200% of salary of £861,100
378.0p
455,608
£1,722,200
25%
31 December 2026
26 March 2027
Awards will vest to executives after three years, subject to the achievement of three independently measured performance conditions as set out below:
Metric
Performance condition
Threshold
Target
Maximum
One-third relative TSR
Relative TSR against the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts); 
straight-line vesting between points
Median 
(25% vests)
–
Upper quartile (100% 
vests)
One-third cash
Group’s Operating Cash Flow from continuing operations; straight-line vesting between points
£255m 
(25% vests)
£364m 
(50% vests)
£414m 
(100% vests)
One-third EPS
Group’s EPS; straight-line vesting between points
36.5p 
(25% vests)
–
56.0p
(100% vests)
For these PSP awards, a post-vesting holding period will apply requiring the shares (net of tax) to be retained for two years.
Payments to past Directors and payments for loss of office
Leo Quinn will remain in post as Group Chief Executive and as an executive Director of the Company until Philip Hoare joins the Group. Leo will continue to be employed in an advisory capacity for several 
months to ensure a seamless transition.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED
Annual report on remuneration continued
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

169
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Details of the remuneration payments made or to be made to Leo Quinn are set out below. These terms 
and his treatment as a ‘Good Leaver’ under the Company’s incentive plans were the subject of careful 
consideration by the Remuneration Committee and are in line with Company’s Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy, which was approved by shareholders at the 2023 Annual General Meeting on 12 May 2023.
 
@ Salary and benefits: Leo Quinn will receive his salary and benefits during the remainder of his 
employment in accordance with his contract and the Directors’ Remuneration Policy. There will be 
no payment in lieu of notice.
 
@ 
Annual Incentive Plan (AIP): Leo Quinn will be eligible for a pro-rated 2025 bonus for active service 
in the year. This will be pro-rated for time and is subject to performance. The 2025 bonus is payable 
in March 2026 and will be paid wholly in cash in line with the Directors’ Remuneration Policy.
 
@ Deferred Bonus Plan (DBP): Outstanding awards will vest on cessation of employment.
 
@ Performance Share Plan (PSP): Leo Quinn’s 2022 PSP award will vest on 31 March 2025 at 99.5% 
further to the performance assessment described earlier in this report. Leo Quinn’s 2023 and 2024 
PSP awards (vesting April 2026 and March 2027) will, subject to pro-rating for time and to satisfaction 
of the applicable performance targets, vest on their normal vesting dates. Vested shares under PSP 
awards will be subject to the normal post-vesting holding period.
 
@ Leo Quinn will not be granted a 2025 PSP award.
 
@ Professional Costs: Leo Quinn will receive a contribution of up to £27,000 (excluding VAT) towards 
legal fees incurred in connection with his departure.
There were no other payments to past Executive Directors or payments for loss of office made during 2024.
Executive Directors’ shareholding guidelines
The Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer are required under the Company’s shareholding 
guidelines to hold shares in the Company worth 200% and 150% of base salary respectively and must 
retain no fewer than 50% of the shares, net of taxes, vesting under their outstanding DBP and PSP 
awards until the required shareholding is met. 
In line with the Investors Association guidelines, the calculations shown in the chart include shares 
beneficially owned at 31 December 2024 plus unvested shares, which are not subject to a further 
performance condition (outstanding DBP awards), on a net of tax basis. Both executive Directors’ 
share interests met the Company’s shareholding guidelines at 31 December 2024.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES
(% of base salary held)
Group Chief Executive
Chief Financial Officer
200%
150%
Performance graph
As in previous reports, the Remuneration Committee has chosen to compare the TSR on the Company’s 
ordinary shares against the FTSE 250 Index (excluding investment trusts) principally because this is a 
broad index of which the Company is a constituent member. The values indicated in the graph show the 
share price growth plus reinvested dividends from a £100 hypothetical holding of ordinary shares in 
Balfour Beatty plc and in the index and have been calculated using 30-day average values.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN (TSR)
Value (£) (rebased)
Balfour Beatty plc
31/12/13
31/12/14
31/12/15
31/12/16
31/12/17
31/12/18
31/12/19
31/12/20
31/12/21
31/12/22
31/12/23
Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream
350
200
150
100
50
300
250
0
FTSE 250 (excluding Investment Trusts)
KEY
 Actual
 Guidance
1,857%
515%
Statement of Directors’ shareholdings and share interests
The interests of the Directors and connected persons (including, amongst others, members of the 
Director’s immediate family) in the share capital of Balfour Beatty plc and its subsidiary undertakings 
during the year are set out below:
Directors
Beneficially owned at
1 January 2024 
1,2
Beneficially owned at 
31 December 2024 
2,3,4
Outstanding 
PSP awards
Outstanding 
DBP awards
Philip Harrison
846,886
429,252
757,648
299,166
Leo Quinn
3,470,498
3,381,580
1,514,603
518,083
Charles Allen
100,000
107,443
 
 
Stephen Billingham
44,495
44,495
Gabrielle Costigan
–
–
Stuart Doughty
7,325
7,325
Anne Drinkwater
4,500
4,500
 
 
Louise Hardy
–
–
Michael Lucki
–
–
 
 
Robert MacLeod
–
17,674
Barbara Moorhouse
4,000
4,000
 
 
Rudolph Wynter
–
–
1 Or date of appointment, if later.
2 Includes any shares held in the Company’s all-employee Share Incentive Plan.
3 Or date of stepping down from the Board, if earlier.
4 
As at 11 March 2025, the latest practicable date prior to the date of this report, there had been no changes to the above. The closing 
market price of the Company’s ordinary shares as at 31 December 2024, 454.8p, was used to calculate the value of shares for the 
purposes of the executive Directors’ shareholding guidelines shown on this page.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

170
170
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Group Chief Executive’s remuneration table
The total remuneration figures for the Group Chief Executive during each of the last 10 financial years are shown in the table below. The total remuneration figure includes the AIP award based on that year’s 
performance and the PSP award based on the three-year performance period ending in the relevant year. The AIP pay-out and PSP vesting level as a percentage of the maximum opportunity are also shown for 
each of these years.
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
Total remuneration1,2,3
£1,442,070
£1,445,250
£4,124,104
£2,982,121
£3,066,624
£2,254,806
£2,942,943
£4,404,747
£3,945,409
£4,895,874
AIP (%)
47.0%
47.5%
97.0%
69.06%
96.25%
59.25%
85%
95%
77.8%
90.4%
PSP (%)
0%
0%
88.6%
64.17%
60.92%
33.33%
60.3%
100%
100%
99.5%
1 The figures from 2015 onwards relate to Leo Quinn.
2 Total remuneration for 2023 has been adjusted from the total figure included in the 2023 Remuneration report to reflect the actual valuation on the 19 March 2024 vesting date of shares vesting under the 2021 PSP.
3 The figures for 2017 and 2018 exclude the vesting of awards made under the recruitment terms for the Group Chief Executive. Full details of these were included in the 2018 Remuneration report.
Percentage change in Directors’ remuneration compared with all UK employees
The table below shows the percentage change in the remuneration of the Directors undertaking the roles of Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer and the non-executive Directors between the financial 
years, compared with the percentage increase for the same years for all UK employees of the Group where UK employees have been selected as the most appropriate comparator. Charles Allen was not a Director 
until 13 May 2021 and therefore his percentage change between 2021 and 2022 is shown in the table on an annualised basis. Louise Hardy was not a Director until 1 April 2022 and therefore the percentage change 
between 2022 and 2023 is shown on an annualised basis. Stephen Billingham and Stuart Doughty stepped down as Directors on 9 May 2024 and therefore the percentage changes between 2023 and 2024 are also 
shown on an annualised basis. Gabrielle Costigan and Robert MacLeod were appointed as Directors on 9 May 2024 and Rudolph Wynter was appointed as a Director on 1 December 2024.
% change between 2023 and 2024
% change between 2022 and 2023
Base
salary
Benefits 
Annual
bonus
Total
remuneration
Base
salary
Benefits 
Annual
bonus
Total
remuneration
Leo Quinn, Group Chief Executive
4%
3%
21%
13%
4%
(57)%
(15)%
(17)%
Philip Harrison, Chief Financial Officer
4%
3%
21%
13%
6%
(54)%
(16)%
(14)%
Charles Allen, Non-executive Group Chair
4%
29%
–
5%
4%
(38)%
–
7%
Stephen Billingham, Senior Independent Non-executive Director1
(63)%
(92)%
–
(65)%
3%
176%
–
6%
Gabrielle Costigan, Independent Non-executive Director2
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
– 
Stuart Doughty, Independent Non-executive Director1
(63)%
(97)%
–
(66)%
3%
302%
–
10%
Anne Drinkwater, Senior Independent Non-executive Director3
12%
64%
–
19%
3%
1%
–
3%
Louise Hardy, Independent Non-executive Director
4%
(1)%
–
4%
45%
239%
–
49%
Michael Lucki, Independent Non-executive Director 
4%
12%
–
6%
4%
54%
–
12%
Robert MacLeod, Independent Non-executive Director
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
– 
Barbara Moorhouse, Independent Non-executive Director 
4%
13%
–
5%
4%
96%
–
8%
Rudolph Wynter, Independent Non-executive Director4
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
– 
All UK employees 
13%
7%
37%
13%
5%
–
(5)%
5%
1 Stuart Doughty and Stephen Billingham retired from the Board effective 9 May 2024.
2 Gabrielle Costigan and Robert MacLeod were appointed to the Board effective 8 March 2024.
3 Anne Drinkwater was appointed Senior Independent Non-executive Director effective 9 May 2024.
4 Rudolph Wynter was appointed to the Board effective 1 December 2024.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED
Annual report on remuneration continued
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

171
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
% change between 2021 and 2022
% change between 2020 and 2021
Base
salary
Benefits 
Annual
bonus
Total
remuneration
Base
salary
Benefits 
Annual
bonus
Total
remuneration
Leo Quinn, Group Chief Executive
2%
2%
16%
9%
3%
3%
43%
21%
Philip Harrison, Chief Financial Officer
5%
4%
22%
14%
11%
8%
57%
30%
Charles Allen, Non-executive Group Chair
31%
2,930%
–
34%
–
–
–
–
Stephen Billingham, Senior Independent Non-executive 
Director
2%
817%
3%
6%
(42)%
–
6%
Gabrielle Costigan, Independent Non-executive Director
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
Stuart Doughty, Independent Non-executive Director
2%
13%
–
2%
6%
77%
–
7%
Anne Drinkwater, Senior Independent Non-executive Director
3%
1,802%
–
18%
5%
(87)%
–
(1)%
Louise Hardy, Independent Non-executive Director
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
Michael Lucki, Independent Non-executive Director
3%
–
–
22%
7%
(100)%
–
(9)%
Robert MacLeod, Independent Non-executive Director
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
Barbara Moorhouse, Independent Non-executive Director
3%
198%
–
6%
7%
(5)%
–
7%
Rudolph Wynter, Independent Non-executive Director
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
All UK employees 
7%
13%
11%
7%
(2)%
5%
122%
0%
% change between 2019 and 2020
Base
salary
Benefits 
Annual
bonus
Total
remuneration
Leo Quinn, Group Chief Executive
(3)%
(3)%
(38)%
(22)%
Philip Harrison, Chief Financial Officer
(2)%
1%
(39)%
(22)%
Charles Allen, Non-executive Group Chair
–
–
–
–
Stephen Billingham, Senior Independent Non-executive 
Director 
(1)%
(29)%
–
(1)%
Gabrielle Costigan, Independent Non-executive Director 
–
–
–
–
Stuart Doughty, Independent Non-executive Director 
(1)%
(52)%
–
(2)%
Anne Drinkwater, Senior Independent Non-executive Director 
6%
(12)%
–
5%
Louise Hardy, Independent Non-executive Director 
–
–
–
–
Michael Lucki, Independent Non-executive Director 
(3)%
(39)%
–
(10)%
Robert MacLeod, Independent Non-executive Director 
–
–
–
–
Barbara Moorhouse, Independent Non-executive Director 
(3)%
34%
–
(2)%
Rudolph Wynter, Independent Non-executive Director 
–
–
–
–
All UK employees 
0%
3%
(44)%
0%
Note: Benefits for non-executive Directors relate to taxable travel expenses and/or travel expenses which are shown in the taxable benefits column of the Remuneration received by Directors for the year ended 31 December 2024 table on page 161. The reported percentage increases in 
benefits in 2022 from 2021 have been impacted significantly by COVID-19 restrictions on travel in 2021. 
Note: In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the executive Directors and non-executive Directors took a voluntary 20% reduction in salary/fees in April and May 2020.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

172
172
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Pay ratio of Group Chief Executive to average employee 
The Regulations require certain companies to disclose the ratio of the Chief Executive’s pay, using the amount set out in the single total figure table, to that of the median, 25th and 75th percentile total 
remuneration of full-time equivalent UK employees.
The table below shows the relevant data for Balfour Beatty’s UK employees for 2024, together with the 2019 to 2023 data, calculated using Option A as set out in the legislation.
25th percentile pay ratio
Median pay ratio
75th percentile pay ratio
Year
Method of calculation adopted
(Group Chief Executive: UK employees)
(Group Chief Executive: UK employees)
(Group Chief Executive: UK employees)
2024
Option A
125:1
87:1
62:1
2023
Option A
98.1
69:1
50:1
2022
Option A
115:1
81:1
59:1
2021
Option A
84:1 
57:1 
40:1
2020
Option A
64:1 
45:1 
32:1
2019
Option A
92:1 
65:1 
45:1
Pay details for the Group Chief Executive and individuals whose 2024 remuneration is at the median, 25th percentile and 75th percentile amongst UK-based employees are as follows:
Group Chief Executive
25th percentile
Median
75th percentile
Salary
£895,5001
£32,498
£44,043
£61,800
Total pay and benefits
£4,895,874
£39,207
£56,098
£79,229
1 Group Chief Executive base salary at 31 December 2024.
The median, 25th percentile and 75th percentile figures used to determine the above ratios were calculated by reference to the full-time equivalent annualised remuneration (comprising salary, benefits, pension, 
annual bonus and long-term incentives) of all UK-based employees of the Group as at 31 December 2024 (i.e. ‘Option A’ under the Regulations). The Committee selected this calculation methodology as it was 
felt to produce the most statistically accurate result.
The Committee considers that the median pay ratio for 2024 that is disclosed in the above table is consistent with the pay, reward and progression policies for Balfour Beatty’s UK employees as a whole. It 
reflects the fact that a greater proportion of executive Director pay is linked to annual performance through a higher annual incentive plan opportunity (a percentage of which is subject to deferral into shares) and 
a long-term incentive plan. The increase in pay ratios for 2024 when compared to 2023 reflect the higher out-turn of the AIP in 2024 when compared to 2023.
Relative importance of spend on pay, dividends and underlying pre-tax profit
The following table shows the Company’s actual spend on pay for all Group employees relative to dividends and underlying pre-tax profit:
2023
2024
% change
Staff costs (£m)1
1,318
1,398
6%
Dividends (£m)
58
61
5%
Underlying pre-tax profit (£m)
261
289
11%
1 Staff costs include base salary, benefits and bonuses for all Group employees (excluding joint ventures and associates).
Directors’ pension allowances
No Directors were contributing members of the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund during 2024. The executive Directors were in receipt of a cash allowance in lieu of pension equivalent to 7% of base salary, in line 
with the wider workforce, as disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration table on page 161.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED
Annual report on remuneration continued
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

173
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
External appointments of executive Directors
At the discretion of the Board, executive Directors are allowed to act as non-executive Directors of other companies and retain any fees relating to those posts. Philip Harrison was appointed a non-executive 
director and chair of the audit committee of Dowlais Group plc in February 2023.
Service contracts
Executive Directors’ contracts are on a rolling 12-month basis and are subject to 12 months’ notice when terminated by the Company and six months’ notice when terminated by the Director. 
The current non-executive Directors, including the Chair, do not have a service contract and their appointments, whilst for a term of three years, may be terminated with three months’ notice (six months’ notice 
for the Group Chair) by either party. All non-executive Directors have letters of appointment and their appointment and subsequent reappointment is subject to annual approval by shareholders. 
Name
Commencement date
Unexpired term remaining
Leo Quinn, Group Chief Executive
1 January 2015
Terminable on 12 months’ notice
Philip Harrison, Chief Financial Officer
1 June 2015
Terminable on 12 months’ notice
Charles Allen, Non-executive Group Chair
13 May 2021
Fixed term expiring on 12 May 2027 (subject to renewal) and terminable on six months’ notice
Stephen Billingham, Senior Non-executive Independent Director
1 June 2015
Retired from Board effective 9 May 2024
Gabrielle Costigan, Independent Non-executive Director
8 March 2024
Fixed term expiring on 7 March 2027 (subject to renewal) and terminable on three months’ notice
Stuart Doughty, Independent Non-executive Director
8 April 2015
Retired from Board effective 9 May 2024
Anne Drinkwater, Senior Non-executive Independent Director
1 December 2018
Fixed term expiring on 30 November 2027 (subject to renewal) and terminable on three months’ notice
Louise Hardy, Independent Non-executive Director
1 April 2022
Fixed term expiring on 31 March 2025 (subject to renewal) and terminable on three months’ notice
Michael Lucki, Independent Non-executive Director
1 July 2017
Fixed term expiring on 30 June 2026 (subject to renewal) and terminable on three months’ notice
Robert MacLeod, Independent Non-executive Director
8 March 2024
Fixed term expiring on 7 March 2027 (subject to renewal) and terminable on three months’ notice
Barbara Moorhouse, Independent Non-executive Director
1 June 2017
Fixed term expiring on 31 May 2026 (subject to renewal) and terminable on three months’ notice
Rudolph Wynter, Independent Non-executive Director
1 December 2024
Fixed term expiring on 30 November 2027 (subject to renewal) and terminable on three months’ notice
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors’ remuneration
The members of the Remuneration Committee are independent non-executive Directors, as defined under the Corporate Governance Code. No member of the Committee has conflicts of interest arising from 
cross-directorships and no member is involved in the day-to-day executive management of the Group. During the year under review, the members of the Committee were as follows:
 
@ Anne Drinkwater (Committee Chair);
 
@ Michael Lucki; 
 
@ Barbara Moorhouse; and
 
@ Robert MacLeod (appointed 8 March 2024).
The Committee also receives advice from several sources, namely:
 
@ the Group Chief Executive and the Group HR Director, who are invited to attend meetings of the Committee but are not present when matters relating directly to their own remuneration are discussed; and
 
@ Deloitte LLP.
At regular intervals the Committee reviews the appropriateness and independence of the advice received from remuneration consultants. As the result of a competitive tender process in 2020, Deloitte LLP was 
appointed as independent remuneration consultants to the Committee. Deloitte LLP is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under its Code of Conduct in relation 
to executive remuneration consulting in the UK. 
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

174
174
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors’ remuneration continued 
During the year, the Committee’s remuneration consultants provided a range of advice to the Committee, including:
 
@ analysis of market practice and corporate governance update;
 
@ provision of benchmark data for senior management and Non-executive Director remuneration;
 
@ assistance with the implementation of the Remuneration Policy;
 
@ assistance with the drafting of the Remuneration report; and
 
@ calculation of vesting levels under the TSR element of the PSP awards.
During 2024, Deloitte LLP received fees amounting to £65,000 excluding VAT (£51,250 excluding VAT in 2023) in respect of advice given to the Committee. Deloitte also provided tax and legal services to 
the Group related to the operation of the Group’s share plans. Other than as disclosed above, Deloitte LLP has no connection with the Company or individual Directors. The Committee is satisfied the advice 
provided by Deloitte LLP is independent.
Terms of reference
During the period, the Committee has agreed a number of changes to be made to its terms of reference, as part of the annual review. Full terms of reference can be found in the Investors section 
of the Company’s website at: www.balfourbeatty.com/investors/governance/board-committees/.
Statement of shareholder voting at the AGM
At the AGM on 9 May 2024, the resolution to approve the Annual report on remuneration received the following votes from shareholders:
Total number of votes
% of votes cast
For
387,412,981
95.76%
Against
17,154,779
4.24%
Total votes cast
404,567,760
100%
Abstentions
68,970
The resolution to approve the Remuneration Policy was approved at the AGM on 12 May 2023 and received the following votes from shareholders:
Total number of votes
% of votes cast
For
364,512,799
81.11%
Against
84,890,014
18.89%
Total votes cast
449,402,813
100%
Abstentions
1,065,800
 
By order of the Board
Anne Drinkwater
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
11 March 2025
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED
Annual report on remuneration continued
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

175
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The Directors of Balfour Beatty plc present 
their report, together with the audited financial 
statements for the year ended 31 December 2024. 
For the purpose of the Financial Reporting 
Council’s Disclosure Guidance and Transparency 
Rule (DTR) 4.1.8R, the Directors’ report is also 
the Management report for the year ended 
31 December 2024.
As permitted by Section 414 C(11) of the 
Companies Act 2006, some matters required to 
be included in the Directors’ report have instead 
been included in the Strategic report. These 
disclosures are incorporated by reference in 
the Directors’ report. The Strategic report can 
be found on pages 1 to 115.
Corporate governance
The Governance section on pages 116 to 178, 
forms part of this Directors’ report.
The Company complied with all the provisions 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code during 
the year ended 31 December 2024.
Directors and their interests
The Directors as at 31 December 2024 were 
Charles Allen, Lord Allen of Kensington CBE, 
Leo Quinn, Philip Harrison, Anne Drinkwater, 
Robert MacLeod, Gabby Costigan MBE, Rudy 
Wynter, Barbara Moorhouse, Michael Lucki, 
and Louise Hardy. Further details and individual 
biographies for of the Directors can be found 
on pages 120 and 121 and information relating to 
their connected persons in the Company’s shares 
(as notifiable to the Company under Article 19 of 
the Market Abuse Regulation) are set out on 
page 169. 
Any related party transaction are included in 
Note 40 to the accounts on page 254.
Listing Rule 6.6.6R(10) 
Data on the diversity of the individuals on 
the Board and in executive management as at 
31 December 2024, as required by Listing Rules 
is set out on the right. The data is collated by 
self-disclosure from the individuals concerned. 
Further narrative surrounding Listing Rule 
6.6.6R(10) and compliance with the targets set 
out can be found in the Nomination Committee 
report on pages 140 to 143. 
Disclosure Guidance and 
Transparency Rules (DTRS) 6.6.6R(9)
The Company is compliant with DTRS 6.6.6R(9). 
Further information on Board Diversity and 
Inclusion can be found on the Nomination 
Committee report on page 142 and 143.
Directors’ indemnities and insurance
The Group maintains directors’ and officers’ 
liability insurance which provides appropriate 
cover for legal action brought against its Directors.
Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions were 
in force during 2024 and as at the date of this 
report for the benefit of certain employees who 
are directors of a subsidiary company.
Qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions 
(as defined by Section 235 of the Companies Act 
2006) were in force during the year ended 31 
December 2024 for the benefit of the trustee 
directors of the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund.
Articles of Association
The Company has not adopted any special rules 
regarding the appointment and replacement of 
Directors or the amendment of the Articles of 
Association, other than as provided for under 
UK company law.
As at 31 December 2024

Number of Board 
members
Percentage of the 
Board
Number of senior 
positions on the 
Board (Chair, CEO, 
CFO and SID)
Number in 
executive 
management
Percentage in 
executive 
management
Female
4
40%
1
2
20%
Male
6
60%
3
8
80%
Not specified/prefer 
not to say
–
–
–
–
–
Total
10
100.0%
4
10
100.0%
As at 31 December 2024
Number of Board 
members
Percentage of the 
Board
Number of senior 
positions on the 
Board (Chair, CEO, 
CFO and SID)
Number in 
executive 
management
Percentage in 
executive 
management
White British or 
other White 
(including minority 
White groups)
9
90.0%
4
9
100.0%
Mixed/multiple 
ethnicity groups
–
–
–
–
–
Asian/Asian British
–
–
–
–
–
Black/African/
Caribbean/Black 
British
1
10.0%
–
–
–
Other ethnic group, 
including Arab
–
–
–
–
–
Not specified/prefer 
not to say
–
–
–
–
–
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

176
176
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Share capital
Details of the share capital of the Company as at 
31 December 2024, including the rights attaching 
to the shares, are set out in Note 32 on page 
245. No shares were issued during 2024.
The powers of the Directors to issue or buy back 
the Company’s shares are determined by the 
Companies Act 2006 and the Articles of 
Association. The Directors are authorised to 
issue and allot shares and to buy back shares 
subject to annual shareholder approval at the 
AGM. Such authorities were granted by shareholders 
at the 2024 AGM and they will be proposed at 
the 2025 AGM that the Directors be granted new 
authorities to issue, allot and buy back shares.
Under the authority provided at the 2023 AGM, 
the Company commenced its 2024 share buyback 
programme on 2 January 2024. Further authority 
for share buybacks was approved at the 2024 
AGM and the 2024 share buyback programme 
was completed on 20 September 2024. Under 
this programme, the Company purchased 27,123,782 
ordinary shares of 50 pence each, for a total 
consideration of £100,000,000 (exclusive of 
expenses) and these shares were held in treasury 
with no voting or dividend rights. On 31 October 2024, 
all 27,123,782 treasury shares were cancelled, 
resulting in a balance of zero treasury shares 
held as at 31 December 2024. The Company 
commenced the initial tranche of its 2025 share 
buyback programme on 6 January 2025. As at 
10 March 2025 (the latest practicable date prior 
to the date of this document), the Company had 
purchased 5,514,793 ordinary shares of 50 pence 
each, for a total consideration of £25,000,000 
(exclusive of expenses) and these shares are 
held in treasury with no voting or dividend rights. 
Throughout 2024, the Company’s issued share 
capital was publicly listed on the London Stock 
Exchange and it remains so as at the date of this 
report. There are no specific restrictions on the 
size of a shareholding which is governed by the 
Articles of Association and the prevailing law. 
Other than in respect of shares that vest under 
the Company’s share schemes and are subject to 
a two-year holding period, there are no specific 
restrictions on the transfer of shares which are 
governed by both the Articles of Association 
and the prevailing law. The Directors are not 
aware of any agreements between holders of the 
Company’s shares that may result in restrictions 
on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
No person has special rights of control over the 
Company’s share capital and all issued shares 
are fully paid. Shares held by the Balfour Beatty 
Employee Share Ownership Trust rank pari passu 
with the ordinary shares in issue and have no 
special rights. Voting rights and rights of acceptance 
of any offer relating to the shares held in this 
trust rest with the trustees, who may take account 
of any recommendation from the Company. 
Voting rights are not exercisable by the employees 
on whose behalf the shares are held in trust. 
Dividends are waived by the trustees in relation 
to the shares held in trust. Details of shares held 
by the Balfour Beatty Share Ownership Trust in 
relation to the Company’s share schemes can be 
found in Note 33.3 on page 249.
Major shareholders’ interests
Notifications provided to the Company by major 
shareholders in accordance with the DTR are 
published via a Regulatory Information Service 
and on the Company’s website.
The Company has been notified of the following 
interests in voting rights in its shares as at 
31 December 2024 and as at the date of this 
report. Please note that percentages provided 
are as at the date of notification.
Shareholder 
Percentage of 
voting rights (%)
as at
31 December 2024
Percentage of
voting rights (%) 
as at
10 March 2025
Schroders plc
5.10
5.10
BlackRock, Inc
5.00
5.00
Dividends
An interim dividend of 3.8 pence (2023: 3.5 pence) 
was paid on 6 December 2024. A final dividend 
of 8.7 pence per share (2023: 8.0 pence) has 
been recommended by the Board for shareholder 
approval at the 2025 AGM, giving total dividends 
per ordinary share of 12.5 pence for 2024 
(2023: 11.5 pence). 
The Directors will continue to offer a Dividend 
Reinvestment Plan, which allows holders of 
ordinary shares to reinvest their cash dividends 
in the Company’s shares through a specially 
arranged share dealing service.
Branches
As the Group is an international business, 
there are activities operated through branches 
in certain jurisdictions.
Auditor
KPMG LLP has indicated its willingness to 
continue as auditor to the Company and a 
resolution for its reappointment will be 
proposed at the 2025 AGM.
Company Secretary
Tracey Wood is Company Secretary at the 
date of this report and was Company Secretary 
throughout the year ended 31 December 2024. 
Innovation, future development 
and research and development
Information concerning innovation, future 
development and research and development is 
set out on pages 22 and 23 and forms part of the 
Directors’ report disclosures.
Sustainability
A full description of the Group’s approach 
to sustainability, including information on 
its community engagement programme, 
appears on pages 48 to 67.
Policies
The Group’s Code of Ethics and other published 
policies, including: Speak Up; health and safety; 
conflicts of interest, sustainability; sustainable 
procurement; social value; environment; supply 
chain media, PR and marketing; quality; and 
information security, remain in place and can 
be accessed on the Company’s website, 
www.balfourbeatty.com.
Engagement with supply chain 
suppliers and customers
Details of the Company’s approach to stakeholder 
engagement, including engagement with 
customers and supply chain suppliers can 
be found on pages 26 to 29.
Greenhouse gas emissions
Details of Balfour Beatty’s greenhouse gas 
emissions and the actions which the Group is 
taking to reduce them are set out on pages 50 to 
55 and form part of the Directors’ report disclosures.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT CONTINUED
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

177
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Employment
The Balfour Beatty Group operates across a 
number of geographies and end-markets. Balfour 
Beatty provides a Human Resources framework 
for promoting diversity, ethical behaviour and 
learning and development as well as continuing 
to fulfil its commitments in relation to regulation 
and corporate governance.
The Group provides fair and flexible employment 
policies and practices that respond to the different 
needs of its people. Information concerning 
employee diversity is set out on pages 66 and 67 
and forms part of the Directors’ report disclosures. 
Balfour Beatty strives to provide employment, 
training and development opportunities for the 
disabled community wherever possible, does not 
discriminate, and is committed to supporting 
employees who become disabled during 
employment, and helping disabled employees 
make the best use of their skills, expertise and 
potential, consistent with any other employee. 
The Company operates an employee Share 
Incentive Plan (SIP) which enables UK-based 
employees to acquire the Company’s ordinary 
shares on a potentially tax-favourable basis, in 
order to encourage employee share ownership 
and provide additional alignment between the 
interests of employees and shareholders. Participants 
in the SIP are the beneficial owners of shares but 
not the registered owners, and the voting rights 
to such shares are exercised by the trustee of 
the SIP at the discretion of the participants.
Further information on how Directors have 
engaged with employees and how they have 
had regard to employee interests can be found 
on pages 127 and 128.
Employees
Details on the average number of employees 
within the Group can be found in Note 7.1 on 
page 214.
Diversity and inclusion
Details on the Board’s Diversity and Inclusion 
Policy can be found in the Nomination 
Committee report on pages 142 and 143.
Details of the Group’s approach to diversity and 
inclusion can be found on pages 72 and 73.
Disclosures required under Listing 
Rule 6.6.1
There are no disclosures required to be made 
under Listing Rule 6.6.1. Details of long-term 
incentive plans can be found in the Remuneration 
report on pages 153 to 174.
Events after the reporting date 
Philip Hoare will join the Board as Group Chief 
Executive in September 2025. He will succeed 
Leo Quinn who will step down from the Board 
after more than 10 years in role.
Events after the reporting date are set out in 
Note 39 on page 253.
Political donations
At the 2024 AGM, shareholders granted 
authority, for the purposes of Part 14 of the 
Companies Act 2006, for the Company and its 
subsidiaries to make donations to political 
organisations up to a maximum aggregate 
amount of £25,000. This approval is a precautionary 
measure in view of the broad definition of these 
terms in the Companies Act. No such expenditure 
or donations were made during 2024 and shareholder 
authority will be sought again at the 2025 AGM.
In the US, corporate political contributions 
totalling US$2,500 were made to a Political 
Action Committee during 2024. These contributions 
are not covered by Part 14 of the Companies Act 
2006. Any such contributions or donations are 
tightly controlled and must be approved in advance 
in accordance with the Company’s internal 
procedures and must also adhere strictly to the 
Company’s Code of Ethics. 
Capitalised interest
Details of the Group’s capitalised interest can be 
found in Note 15 and Note 16 on pages 219 and 220.
Financial instruments
The Group’s financial risk management 
objectives and policies (including its hedging 
policy) and its exposure to the following risks – 
liquidity, foreign currency, interest rate, price and 
credit – are detailed in Note 41 on pages 257 to 259.
Going concern and viability
The Group’s going concern statement is detailed 
in Note 1 on page 198.
The Group’s long-term viability statement is set 
out on page 106.
Change of control provisions
The Group’s bank facility and surety agreements 
contain provisions that, where the parties are 
unable to agree the implications of any change of 
control, on notice being given to the Group, the 
lenders and sureties may exercise their discretion 
to require prepayment of any loans or outstanding 
bonds and cancel all commitments under the 
agreement concerned. 
The Group’s US private placement arrangements 
require the Company, promptly upon becoming 
aware that a change of control of the Company 
has occurred (and in any event within 10 business 
days), to give written notice of such fact to all 
noteholders and make an offer to prepay the 
entire unpaid principal amount of the notes, 
together with accrued interest.
A number of joint venture, client contracts and 
contract bond agreements include provisions 
which become exercisable by a counterparty on 
a change of control. These include the right of a 
counterparty to request additional security and 
to terminate an agreement. 
Some other commercial agreements, entered 
into in the normal course of business, include 
change of control provisions. The Group’s share 
and incentive plans include usual provisions 
relating to change of control. There are no 
agreements providing for compensation for the 
Directors or employees on a change of control.
Annual General Meeting
All resolutions continue to be put to a poll rather 
than a show of hands. Each substantially separate 
issue is proposed via a separate resolution and 
proxy forms provide for shareholders to vote for, 
vote against or withhold their vote on each resolution.
All Board members typically attend the AGM 
and are available to answer questions during 
the formal part of the meeting as well as being 
present for informal discussion over refreshments 
after the AGM.
The 2025 AGM will be held at The Curve, Axis 
Business Park, Hurricane Way, Langley SL3 8AG, 
United Kingdom on Thursday 8 May 2025 
commencing at 10 am.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

178
178
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Statement of Directors as to 
disclosure of information to the 
Company’s auditor
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:
 
@ each of the persons who are Directors at the 
time when this Directors’ report is approved 
confirms that, so far as they are aware, there 
is no relevant audit information of which the 
Company’s auditor is unaware and that they 
have taken all the steps that they ought to have 
taken as a Director to make themselves aware 
of any relevant audit information and to establish 
that the Company’s auditor is aware of that 
information.
Statement of Directors’ 
responsibilities in respect of 
the Annual Report and the 
financial statements 
The Directors are responsible for preparing 
the Annual Report and the Group and Parent 
Company financial statements in accordance 
with applicable law and regulations. 
Company law requires the Directors to prepare 
Group and Parent Company financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law they are 
required to prepare the Group financial statements 
in accordance with UK-adopted international 
accounting standards and applicable law and 
have elected to prepare the Parent Company 
financial statements in accordance with UK 
accounting standards and applicable law, including 
FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.
Under company law the Directors must not 
approve the financial statements unless they are 
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the 
state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company 
and of the Group’s profit or loss for that period. In 
preparing each of the Group and Parent Company 
financial statements, the Directors are required to: 
 
 
@ select suitable accounting policies and then 
apply them consistently; 
 
@ make judgements and estimates that are 
reasonable, relevant, reliable, and prudent; 
 
@ for the Group financial statements, state whether 
they have been prepared in accordance with 
UK-adopted international accounting standards; 
 
@ for the Parent Company financial statements, 
state whether applicable UK accounting 
standards have been followed, subject to any 
material departures disclosed and explained in 
the Parent Company financial statements; 
 
@ assess the Group and Parent Company’s ability 
to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as 
applicable, matters related to going concern; and 
 
@ use the going concern basis of accounting 
unless they either intend to liquidate the Group 
or the Parent Company or to cease operations, 
or have no realistic alternative but to do so. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping 
adequate accounting records that are sufficient 
to show and explain the Parent Company’s 
transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the financial position of the 
Parent Company and enable them to ensure that 
its financial statements comply with the Companies 
Act 2006. They are responsible for such internal 
control as they determine is necessary to enable 
the preparation of financial statements that are 
free from material misstatement, whether due to 
fraud or error, and have general responsibility for 
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them 
to safeguard the assets of the Group and to 
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. 
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors 
are also responsible for preparing a Strategic 
report, Directors’ report, Directors’ remuneration 
report and Corporate governance statement that 
complies with that law and those regulations. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance 
and integrity of the corporate and financial 
information included on the Company’s website. 
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation 
and dissemination of financial statements may 
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
Responsibility statement of the 
Directors in respect of the Annual 
Financial Report
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: 
 
@ the financial statements, prepared in accordance 
with the applicable set of accounting standards, 
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, 
financial position and profit or loss of the 
Company and the undertakings included in 
the consolidation taken as a whole; and 
 
@ the Strategic report includes a fair review 
of the development and performance of the 
business and the position of the Company and 
the undertakings included in the consolidation 
taken as a whole, together with a description 
of the principal risks and uncertainties that 
they face. 
We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced, and understandable 
and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s position 
and performance, business model and strategy. 
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted 
in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 
of the Companies Act 2006.
By order of the Board
Tracey Wood
Group General Counsel and Company 
Secretary 
11 March 2025 
Registered Office: 5 Churchill Place, Canary 
Wharf, London E14 5HU Registered in England 
and Wales, registered number 395826
DIRECTORS’ REPORT CONTINUED
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

179
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BALFOUR BEATTY PLC
1 Our opinion is unmodified 
We have audited the financial statements of Balfour Beatty plc (the Company) for the year ended 
31 December 2024 which comprise the Group Income Statement, Group Statement of Comprehensive 
Income, Group Statement of Changes in Equity, Company Statement of Changes in Equity, Group 
and Company Balance Sheets, Group Statement of Cash Flows, and the related notes, including the 
accounting policies in note 2. The commentary provided by the Directors on pages 189, 191, 192, 195 
and 197 does not form part of the financial statements.
In our opinion: 
 
@ the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the parent 
Company’s affairs as at 31 December 2024 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended; 
 
@ the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK-adopted 
international accounting standards;
 
@ the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK 
accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework; and 
 
@ the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies 
Act 2006. 
Basis for opinion 
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and 
applicable law. Our responsibilities are described below. We believe that the audit evidence we have 
obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion. Our audit opinion is consistent with our 
report to the Audit and Risk committee. 
We were first appointed as auditor by the Company’s shareholders on 19 May 2016. The period of total 
uninterrupted engagement is for the nine financial years ended 31 December 2024. We have fulfilled 
our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in accordance with, UK 
ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities. 
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were provided.
2 Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement 
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance 
in the audit of the financial statements and include the most significant assessed risks of material 
misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) identified by us, including those which had the greatest 
effect on: the overall audit strategy; the allocation of resources in the audit; and directing the efforts 
of the engagement team. We summarise below the key audit matters (unchanged from 2023), in 
decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit 
procedures to address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those 
procedures. These matters were addressed, and our results are based on procedures undertaken, in 
the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in 
forming our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide 
a separate opinion on these matters.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

180
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BALFOUR BEATTY PLC 
CONTINUED
2 Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued 
The risk
Our response
Contract accounting: Construction Services - revenue £6,630m (2023: £ 6,695m), contract assets £116m (2023: £203m), contract liabilities (current) £506m (2023: £506m), and loss provisions included within 
contract provisions (current) £213m (2023: £187m). 
Risk vs 2023: 
 
Refer to page 149 (Audit and Risk Committee report), note 2.4 (Principal accounting policies – Revenue recognition), note 2.28(a) (Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty – Revenue and margin 
recognition)
Subjective estimates
The recognition of revenue and margin within the Construction Services 
segment relies on estimates in relation to the forecast total costs of each 
contract. Cost contingencies may be included in these estimates to take 
account of specific uncertain risks or disputed claims against the Group 
arising within each contract. Where a contract has become, or is expected 
to be, loss-making, a provision is recognised using these estimates. The 
Group will also make estimates in recognising provisions associated with 
defects arising on certain completed contracts.
Further estimation uncertainty exists in relation to assessing the amount of 
variable consideration that should be included on a contract-by-contract 
basis for variations and claims. The Group has to estimate the amount they 
expect to receive and assess whether it is highly probable such that a 
significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not 
occur.
Professional standards require us to make a rebuttable presumption that 
the fraud risk associated with revenue recognition is a significant risk. The 
potential incentives and pressures to achieve bonus targets and meet profit 
targets could increase the risk of fraudulent revenue recognition in relation 
to the Construction Services segment revenue, as well as the risk of 
fraudulent margin recognition in relation to contract loss provisions in the 
segment. 
The effect of these matters is that, as part of our risk assessment, we 
determined that contract revenue within the Construction Services 
segment and the related contract balances have a high degree of 
estimation uncertainty, with a potential range of reasonable outcomes 
greater than our materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole, 
and possibly many times that amount. Therefore, auditor judgement is 
required to assess whether the Directors’ estimates for total forecast costs 
and variable consideration, and therefore the amount of revenue, margin 
and related contract balances recognised, fall within acceptable ranges.
The financial statements (note 2.28(a)) disclose the nature and the extent 
of the estimation uncertainty estimated by the Group.
We performed the tests below rather than seeking to rely on the Group’s controls because the nature of the balances is such that 
we would expect to obtain audit evidence primarily through the detailed procedures described.
Using a variety of quantitative and qualitative criteria we selected a sample of contracts to assess and challenge the most 
significant and complex contract estimates. We obtained the project review papers prepared by the Group which explained the 
estimates made and challenged the judgements underlying those papers with operational, legal, commercial and financial 
management.
Our procedures on the contracts selected included:
 
@ Historical comparisons: assessing the Group’s ability to accurately forecast end-of-life contract margins by comparing the total 
forecast costs and variable consideration previously recognised to final outcomes;
 
@ Customer and subcontractor correspondence scrutiny: analysing correspondence with customers and subcontractors 
around variations and claims to challenge the estimates of variations, claims, forecast costs and defects made by the Group;
 
@ Legal correspondence scrutiny: where relevant, analysing correspondence with lawyers and other legal advice obtained by 
the Group relating to variations, claims and defects;
 
@ Test of detail: in respect of fixed-price contracts, analysing the end-of-life contract margins forecasts and challenging the total 
cost estimates within the forecasts by considering the amounts already procured, the amounts still to be procured, the site and 
time related cost forecasts against programme and run rates, and any contingency held;
 
@ Test of detail: inspecting contracts for key clauses; identifying relevant contractual mechanisms such as pain/gain shares, 
disallowed costs, liquidated damages, inflation related clauses and success fees, and assessing whether these key clauses have 
been appropriately reflected in the amounts recognised in the financial statements;
 
@ Site visits: for certain higher risk or larger value contracts, and a haphazard selection of other contracts, attending in-person site 
visits or holding video conference calls where we inspected the physical progress of the project and discussed the project with 
site personnel. Our own construction industry specialists attended a selection of these site visits;
 
@ Use of our own specialists: utilising our own industry specialists for certain contracts where specific risk factors were 
identified to assist with identifying the risks and opportunities associated with the contract and assist in developing a range of 
possible outcomes for specific assumptions. This assisted us in challenging the appropriateness of revenue recognised and, 
where applicable, provisions held in relation to these contracts; and
 
@ Assessing transparency: considering the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures around the degree of estimation uncertainty 
involved in recognising revenue and related contract balances in the Construction Services segment.
Our results: 
We consider the amount of revenue and the related contract assets, contract liabilities and loss provisions recognised within the 
Construction Services segment to be acceptable (2023: acceptable).
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

181
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
The risk
Our response
Certain legacy contract-related provisions: provisions £82m for Building Safety Act (2023: £21m), and £92m (2023: £nil) for the SH161 project in Texas. Non-underlying items £83m for the Building Safety 
Act (2023: £nil), and £52m (2023: £nil) for the SH161 project in Texas. Insurance recoveries £40m relating to SH161 project in Texas (2023: £nil). 
Risk vs 2023: 
Refer to pages 149-150 (Audit and Risk Committee report), note 2.23 (Principal accounting policies – provisions), note 2.28(d) (Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty – Contract provisions 
(estimate), note 10 (Non-underlying items), note 27 (Provisions)
Subjective estimates
The recognition of provisions for certain legacy contracts is subjective 
and inherently judgemental in nature and therefore results in a risk of error 
and fraud.
On the SH161 project in Texas, the Group is subject to damages as a result 
of defects on a historical contract which is beyond what is customary in the 
normal course of business. 
Furthermore, the Group is exposed to claims that could arise under the 
Building Safety Act, that allege fire safety issues for completed residential 
buildings constructed by the Group which could sit with either the 
customer or the Group as the prime contractor.
We note that the KAM in relation to Certain legacy contract-related 
provisions is new in the current year, following specific events arising in the 
reporting period which has increased the estimation uncertainty.
We performed the tests below rather than seeking to rely on the Group’s controls because the nature of the balances is such that 
we would expect to obtain audit evidence primarily through the detailed procedures described.
Our procedures included:
 
@ Test of detail: for the specific provisions made we critically assessed the Group’s assumptions made in calculating the provision 
considering cost estimates, historical experience and third-party evidence where appropriate.
 
@ Personnel interviews: in respect of open matters of litigation, we held enquiries with Management, including the Group’s 
in-house legal counsel and inspected relevant correspondence and considered against provisions made;
 
@ Assessing transparency: considered the adequacy of the Group’s disclosures around the degree of estimation 
uncertainty involved in recognising certain legacy contract-related provisions and the appropriateness of charges presented 
as non‑underlying items.
Our procedures over the SH161 project included:
 
@ Test of detail: inspected correspondence with the insurer to assess the recoverability of reimbursement assets recognised 
and challenge whether they meet the IFRS recognition criteria. 
Our results: 
We consider the amount provided for in relation to the specific historical contract and the Building Safety Act to be acceptable.
2 Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

182
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
The risk
Our response
Recoverability of the parent Company’s investment in subsidiaries
Investment in subsidiaries £1,753m (2023: £1,745m) 
Risk vs 2023: 
 
Refer to note 21.2 (Investments)
Low risk, high value
The carrying amount of the parent Company’s investment in subsidiaries 
represents 68% of the parent Company’s total assets. Their recoverability 
is not at a high risk of significant misstatement or subject to significant 
judgement. However, due to their materiality in the context of the parent 
Company financial statements, this is considered to be the area that had 
the greatest effect on our overall parent Company audit.
In particular, we have spent more time on the recoverability of the 
investment in Balfour Beatty Investment Holdings Limited (BBIHL) 
as a value-in-use model has been used to support the investment’s 
carrying amount.
We performed the tests below rather than seeking to rely on any of the Company’s controls because the nature of the balance 
is such that we would expect to obtain audit evidence primarily through the detailed procedures described.
Our procedures included:
 
@ Tests of detail: comparing the carrying amount of 100% of investments (2023: 100%) with the relevant subsidiaries’ draft 
balance sheets to identify whether their net assets, being an approximation of their minimum recoverable amount, were in 
excess of their carrying amount.
 
@ Assessing subsidiary audits: Assessed the work performed by the subsidiary audit teams on the subsidiaries and 
considering the results of that work, on those subsidiaries’ profits and net assets.
The below procedures were performed over the investment in BBIHL only. 
 
@ Our knowledge of the entity and environment: critically assessing the profit from operations and long-term growth rate 
assumptions underlying the cash flow forecast with reference to historical forecasting accuracy, and our knowledge of the 
entity and the sector in which it operates.
 
@ Benchmarking assumptions: challenging the assumptions used by the Company in the calculation of BBIHL’s discount rates 
and the long-term growth rates by comparisons with external data sources;
 
@ Sensitivity analysis: performing our own sensitivity analysis over BBIHL’s value-in-use, including a reasonably possible 
reduction in assumed long-term growth rates and profit from operations and consideration of the possible impacts of current 
economic uncertainty, to identify the most sensitive disclosures.
Our results:
We found the Company’s conclusion that there is no impairment of its investment in subsidiaries to be acceptable (2023: acceptable).
2 Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement continued
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BALFOUR BEATTY PLC 
CONTINUED
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit 
Our application of materiality
Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at £23.0m (2023: £22.0m), 
determined with reference to a benchmark of Group revenue, of which it represents 0.28% (2023: 0.28%).
We consider total revenue to be the most appropriate benchmark due to the focus on revenue by 
investors and the differing nature of the investments business (an asset-based business) compared to 
the contracting businesses (profit orientated entities). Whilst the contracting businesses are focused 
on profit measures, there has been significant volatility in recent years which has impacted the Group’s 
profit before tax without any reduction in the scale of the contracting businesses. In setting our materiality, 
we have also given consideration to the Group’s profit before tax normalised for a range of factors 
including contract write-downs.
Materiality for the parent Company financial statements as a whole was set at £19.0m (2023: £18.0m), 
determined with reference to a benchmark of Company total assets of which it represents 0.74% 
(2023: 0.75%).
In line with our audit methodology, our procedures on individual account balances and disclosures 
were performed to a lower threshold, performance materiality, so as to reduce to an acceptable level 
the risk that individually immaterial misstatements in individual account balances add up to a material 
amount across the financial statements as a whole.
Performance materiality for the Group and parent Company was set at 75% (2023: 75%) of materiality 
for the financial statements as a whole, which equates to £17.2m (2023: £16.5m) for the Group and 
£14.2m (2023: £13.5m) for the parent Company. We applied this percentage in our determination of 
performance materiality because we did not identify any factors indicating an elevated level of risk.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

183
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit 
continued 
Our application of materiality continued
We agreed to report to the Audit and Risk Committee any corrected or uncorrected identified 
misstatements exceeding £1.2m (2023: £1.1m), in addition to other identified misstatements that 
warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
Overview of the scope of our audit
This year, we applied the revised group auditing standard in our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements. The revised standard changes how an auditor approaches the identification of components, 
and how the audit procedures are planned and executed across components. 
In particular, the definition of a component has changed, shifting the focus from how the entity 
prepares financial information to how we, as the group auditor, plan to perform audit procedures to 
address group risks of material misstatement (RMMs). Similarly, the group auditor has an increased 
role in designing the audit procedures as well as making decisions on where these procedures are 
performed (centrally and/or at component level) and how these procedures are executed and supervised. 
As a result, we assess scoping and coverage in a different way and comparisons to prior period 
coverage figures are not meaningful. In this report we provide an indication of scope coverage on 
the new basis. 
We performed risk assessment procedures to determine which of the Group’s components are likely 
to include risks of material misstatement to the Group financial statements and which procedures to 
perform at these components to address those risks.
In total, we identified 23 components, having considered our evaluation of the following factors 
and our ability to perform audit procedures centrally: 
 
@ the Group’s operational structure;
 
@ the Group’s legal structure;
 
@ the existence of common information systems;
 
@ the existence of common risk profile across entities/business units/functions/business activities;
 
@ geographical locations; and
 
@ the presence of key audit matters.
Of those, we identified three quantitatively significant components which contained the largest percentages 
of either total revenue or total assets of the Group, for which we performed audit procedures.
We also identified two components as requiring special audit consideration, owing to risks relating 
to Contract Accounting. 
Additionally, having considered qualitative and quantitative factors, we selected six components 
with accounts contributing to the specific RMMs of the Group financial statements.
GROUP REVENUE
GROUP TOTAL ASSETS
GROUP PROFIT BEFORE TAX
98%
96%
83%
Accordingly, we performed audit procedures on 11 components, of which we involved component auditors 
in performing the audit work on 5 components. We also performed the audit of the parent Company.
The Group auditor instructed component auditors as to the significant areas to be covered, including 
the relevant risks and the information to be reported back.
The Group also operates a shared service centre that is relevant to our audit in the UK. This service 
centre performs accounting and reporting activities alongside related controls. This service centre 
processes a substantial portion of the Group’s transactions over purchases and payroll, the outputs of 
which relate to financial information of the reporting components it services and therefore it is not a 
separate reporting component. This service centre is subject to specified risk-focused audit procedures, 
predominantly the testing of transaction processing and review controls. We also performed audit 
procedures over the significant accounts of the entities or business units that use the service centre.
We set the component materialities, ranging from £4m to £15m, having regard to the mix of size 
and risk profile of the Group across the components.
Our audit procedures covered 98% of Group revenue.
We performed audit procedures in relation to components that accounted for 83% of Group profit 
before tax and 96% of Group total assets.
Group auditor oversight
As part of establishing the overall Group audit strategy and plan, we conducted the risk assessment 
and planning discussion meetings with component auditors to discuss Group audit risks relevant to 
the components, including the key audit matter in respect of Contract Accounting.
We visited all component auditors in the UK, USA & Hong Kong to assess the audit risks and strategy. 
Video and telephone conference meetings were also held with these component auditors throughout 
the audit. At these visits and meetings, the results of the planning procedures and further audit 
procedures communicated to us were discussed in more detail, and any further work required by 
us was then performed by the component auditors.
We inspected the work performed by the component auditors for the purpose of the Group audit 
and evaluated the appropriateness of conclusions drawn from the audit evidence obtained and 
consistencies between communicated findings and work performed, with a particular focus on 
work related to Contract Accounting and the risk of management override of controls.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

184
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BALFOUR BEATTY PLC 
CONTINUED
3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the scope of our audit 
continued
Impact of controls on our group audit
The Group utilises a diverse range of IT systems across its operating businesses. For all of the components 
where audit procedures are performed, we obtained an understanding of the relevant IT systems for 
the purposes of our audit work. Given the diverse nature of the Group’s information systems and 
general IT controls, as well as having considered the efficiency and effectiveness of approaches to 
gaining the appropriate audit evidence, we did not plan to rely on the Group’s general IT controls in 
our audit. 
We tested operating effectiveness and placed reliance on manual controls in some transactional areas 
of the audit, but not in respect of the key audit matters. These transactional areas included treasury, 
payroll, revenue billing, and purchases. This led to a reduction in sample sizes for substantive testing 
in these areas.
We assessed the design of controls in the significant risk areas relevant to our audit, although we did 
not seek to rely on controls in these areas as the nature of the related balances is such that we would 
expect to obtain audit evidence primarily through substantive procedures. Accordingly, our audit of the 
significant risks, was fully substantive.
4 The impact of climate change on our audit 
In planning our audit, we considered the potential impacts of climate change on the Group’s business 
and its financial statements. 
The Group has set out in its Strategic Report its ambition to go Beyond Net Zero Carbon by 2045 
and other climate-related targets, as well as the potential climate risks to the Group.
As stated in note 1 to the financial statements, whilst the Group has set these targets and considered 
the climate risks identified in the TCFD disclosure, the Directors do not believe that there is a material 
impact on the financial reporting judgements and estimates from these matters as of 31 December 2024.
As a part of our audit, we have performed a risk assessment, including enquiries of management, to 
understand how the impact of commitments made by the Group in respect of climate change, as well 
as the physical or transition risks of climate change, may affect the financial statements and our audit. 
We also held discussions with our own climate change professionals to challenge our risk assessment. 
There was no impact of this on our key audit matters. 
We did not identify any significant risk in the current period of climate change having a material 
impact on the Group’s significant accounting estimates. For contract accounting, as well as contract 
provisions, this is due to a range of factors including the shorter-term nature of this estimate (the majority 
of contracts will substantially complete within two years of the Balance Sheet date) and contract 
mechanisms in place which limit risk (e.g. either where risk remains with the customer or is passed to 
the supply chain). For other estimates, this is due to a range of factors including the use of marketbased estimates, and the nature of the estimate (retirement benefit obligations, retirement benefit 
assets, financial assets measured through OCI, employee and other provisions). 
We have read the disclosure of climate-related information in the front half of the Annual Report 
and considered consistency with the financial statements and our audit knowledge. 
5 Going concern 
The Directors have prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis as they do not intend 
to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease their operations, and as they have concluded that 
the Group’s and the Company’s financial position means that this is realistic. They have also concluded 
that there are no material uncertainties that could have cast significant doubt over their ability to 
continue as a going concern for at least a year from the date of approval of the financial statements 
(the going concern period). 
We used our knowledge of the Group, its industry, and the general economic environment to identify 
the inherent risks to its business model and analysed how those risks might affect the Group’s and 
Company’s financial resources or ability to continue operations over the going concern period. The risk 
that we considered most likely to adversely affect the Group’s and Company’s available financial resources 
and metrics relevant to debt covenants over this period was a deterioration in contract profitability due 
to economic conditions, unforeseen operational challenges or commercial disputes, or a combination 
of these, leading to a sustained medium-term decline in profits, delays to planned disposals of PPP 
financial assets and delays to the start date of contracts leading to a reduction in revenue.
We also considered less predictable but realistic second order impacts, such as a unique one-off event 
including the financial consequences of a major health and safety breach.
We considered whether these risks could plausibly affect the liquidity or covenant compliance in 
the going concern period by assessing the Directors’ sensitivities over the level of available financial 
resources and covenant thresholds indicated by the Group’s financial forecasts taking account of 
severe but plausible adverse effects that could arise from these risks individually and collectively.
Our procedures also included: 
 
@ critically assessing assumptions in the base case and downside scenarios, particularly in relation to 
contract profitability and its impact on forecast liquidity and covenant compliance, by comparing to 
historical trends, overlaying knowledge of the entity’s plans based on approved budgets, as well as 
our knowledge of the Group and the sector in which it operates; 
 
@ comparing past budgets to actual results to assess the Directors’ track record of budgeting accurately;
 
@ Inspecting the confirmation from the lender of the level of committed financing, and the associated 
covenant requirements; and 
 
@ considering whether the going concern disclosure in note 1 to the financial statements gives a full 
and accurate description of the Directors’ assessment of going concern, including the identified 
risks, and related sensitivities.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

185
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
5 Going concern continued
Our conclusions based on this work:
 
@ we consider that the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of 
the financial statements is appropriate;
 
@ we have not identified, and concur with the Directors’ assessment that there is not, a material 
uncertainty related to events or conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt 
on the Group’s or Company’s ability to continue as a going concern for the going concern period;
 
@ we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to the Directors’ statement in note 1 
to the financial statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material 
uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Company’s use of that basis for the 
going concern period, and we found the going concern disclosure in note 1 to be acceptable; and
 
@ the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 88 is materially consistent with the 
financial statements and our audit knowledge.
However, as we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may result in 
outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the time they were made, 
the above conclusions are not a guarantee that the Group or the Company will continue in operation. 
6 Fraud and breaches of laws and regulations – ability to detect
Identifying and responding to risks of material misstatement due to fraud
To identify risks of material misstatement due to fraud (fraud risks) we assessed events or conditions that 
could indicate an incentive or pressure to commit fraud or provide an opportunity to commit fraud. Our 
risk assessment procedures included:
 
@ Enquiring of Directors, the Audit and Risk Committee, internal audit and compliance officers and 
inspection of policy documentation as to the Group’s high-level policies and procedures to prevent 
and detect fraud, including the internal audit function, and the Group’s channel for ‘whistleblowing’, 
as well as whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud.
 
@ Reading Board and all relevant Committee minutes.
 
@ Considering remuneration incentive schemes (primarily the annual incentive plan) and performance 
targets for management and Directors, including underlying profit from operations targets for 
management remuneration.
 
@ Using analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships; and
 
@ Using our own forensic specialists to assist us in identifying fraud risks based on discussions 
of the circumstances of the Group and the Company.
We communicated identified fraud risk factors throughout the audit team and remained alert to any 
indications of fraud throughout the audit. This included communication from the Group audit team to 
component audit teams of relevant fraud risks identified at the Group level and requests to all component 
audit teams to report to the Group audit team any instances of fraud that could give rise to a material 
misstatement to the Group.
As required by auditing standards, and taking into account possible pressures to achieve bonus targets 
and meet profit targets and our overall knowledge of the control environment, we performed procedures 
to address the risk of management override of controls and the risk of fraudulent revenue recognition, 
in particular:
 
@ the risk that Group and component management may be in a position to make inappropriate 
accounting entries; and
 
@ the risk of bias in accounting estimates such as the forecast costs and the recognition of variable 
consideration in relation to the Construction Services segment revenue and the certain legacy 
contract-related provisions.
Further detail in respect of revenue recognition in the Construction Services segment, including the 
estimation of forecast costs and variable consideration, is set out in the Contract Accounting key audit 
matter disclosure in section 2 of this report.
However, on this audit we do not believe there is a fraud risk related to revenue recognition in the 
Support Services segment due to the size of its revenue and the nature of contracts operated in this 
segment. We also do not believe there is a fraud risk related to revenue recognition in the Infrastructure 
Investments segment based on the contractual nature of the segment’s revenue with no significant 
judgement or estimation required in recognising revenue.
Further detail in respect of the risk of bias in the certain legacy contract-related provisions estimates 
is set out in the key audit matter disclosure in section 2 of this report.
We did not identify any additional fraud risks. 
We performed procedures including:
 
@ Identifying journal entries and other adjustments to test for all quantitatively significant components 
and components requiring special audit consideration, based on specific risk-based criteria and 
comparing the identified entries to supporting documentation. These included those posted with 
unusual account pairings.
 
@ Assessing significant accounting estimates for bias.
Identifying and responding to risks of material misstatement due to non-compliance with 
laws and regulations
We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect 
on the financial statements from our general commercial and sector experience, through discussion 
with the Directors and other management (as required by auditing standards), and from inspection 
of the Group’s regulatory and legal correspondence and discussed with the Directors and other 
management the policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws and regulations.
As the Group is regulated, our assessment of risks involved gaining an understanding of the control 
environment including the entity’s procedures for complying with regulatory requirements.
We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications 
of non-compliance throughout the audit. This included communication from the Group audit team to 
component audit teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at the Group level, and a request for 
component auditor teams to report to the Group audit team any instances of non-compliance with laws 
and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement at the Group.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

186
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BALFOUR BEATTY PLC 
CONTINUED
6 Fraud and breaches of laws and regulations – ability to detect continued
Identifying and responding to risks of material misstatement due to non-compliance with 
laws and regulations continued
The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the financial statements varies considerably.
Firstly, the Group is subject to laws and regulations that directly affect the financial statements 
including financial reporting legislation (including related company legislation), distributable profits 
legislation, pension legislation, and taxation legislation. We assessed the extent of compliance with 
these laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
Secondly, the Group is subject to many other laws and regulations where the consequences of 
non-compliance could have a material effect on amounts or disclosures in the financial statements, 
for instance through the imposition of fines or litigation or the loss of the Group’s licence to operate. 
We identified the following areas as those most likely to have such an effect: health and safety, data 
protection laws, anti-bribery, employment law, environmental law, building safety, contract legislation 
and certain aspects of company legislation recognising the nature of the Group’s activities. Auditing 
standards limit the required audit procedures to identify non-compliance with these laws and 
regulations to enquiry of the Directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal 
correspondence, if any. Therefore, if a breach of operational regulations is not disclosed to us or 
evident from relevant correspondence, an audit will not detect that breach.
We discussed with the Audit and Risk Committee matters related to actual or suspected breaches 
of laws or regulations, for which disclosure is not necessary, and considered any implications for 
our audit.
Context of the ability of the audit to detect fraud or breaches of law or regulation
Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that we may not have 
detected some material misstatements in the financial statements, even though we have properly 
planned and performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards. For example, the further 
removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected 
in the financial statements, the less likely the inherently limited procedures required by auditing 
standards  would identify it.
In addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of fraud, as this may 
involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal 
controls. Our audit procedures are designed to detect material misstatement. We are not responsible 
for preventing non-compliance or fraud and cannot be expected to detect non-compliance with all laws 
and regulations.
7 We have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report 
The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with 
the financial statements. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information 
and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of 
assurance conclusion thereon. 
Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our 
financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the 
financial statements or our audit knowledge. Based solely on that work we have not identified material 
misstatements in the other information. 
Strategic report and Directors’ report 
Based solely on our work on the other information: 
 
@ we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report and the Directors’ report; 
 
@ in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the 
financial statements; and 
 
@ in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. 
Directors’ remuneration report 
In our opinion the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared 
in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. 
Disclosures of emerging and principal risks and longer-term viability 
We are required to perform procedures to identify whether there is a material inconsistency between 
the Directors’ disclosures in respect of emerging and principal risks and the viability statement, and the 
financial statements and our audit knowledge. 
Based on those procedures, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: 
 
@ the Directors’ confirmation within the viability statement on page 106 that they have carried out a 
robust assessment of the emerging and principal risks facing the Group, including those that would 
threaten its business model, future performance, solvency, and liquidity; 
 
@ the Emerging and Principal Risks disclosures on page 94-105 describing these risks and how 
emerging risks are identified, and explaining how they are being managed and mitigated; and 
 
@ the Directors’ explanation in the viability statement of how they have assessed the prospects of the 
Group, over what period they have done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, 
and their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able 
to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, 
including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

187
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
7 We have nothing to report on the other information in the Annual Report 
continued
Disclosures of emerging and principal risks and longer-term viability continued
We are also required to review the viability statement, set out on page 106 under the Listing Rules. 
Based on the above procedures, we have concluded that the above disclosures are materially 
consistent with the financial statements and our audit knowledge.
Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context of only the knowledge acquired during 
our financial statements audit. As we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent 
events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the time 
they were made, the absence of anything to report on these statements is not a guarantee as to the 
Group’s and Company’s longer-term viability.
Corporate governance disclosures 
We are required to perform procedures to identify whether there is a material inconsistency between 
the Directors’ corporate governance disclosures and the financial statements and our audit knowledge.
Based on those procedures, we have concluded that each of the following is materially consistent with 
the financial statements and our audit knowledge:
 
@ the Directors’ statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial statements taken as 
a whole is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Group’s position and performance, business model and strategy; 
 
@ the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee, including the 
significant issues that the Audit Committee considered in relation to the financial statements, 
and how these issues were addressed; and
 
@ the section of the Annual Report that describes the review of the effectiveness of the Group’s risk 
management and internal control systems.
We are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Group’s 
compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules 
for our review. We have nothing to report in this respect. 
8 We have nothing to report on the other matters on which we are required 
to report by exception 
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: 
 
@ adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate 
for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or 
 
@ the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report 
to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or 
 
@ certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or 
 
@ we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. 
We have nothing to report in these respects. 
9 Respective responsibilities 
Directors’ responsibilities 
As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 178, the Directors are responsible for: the 
preparation of the financial statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view; such 
internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; assessing the Group and parent 
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going 
concern; and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the 
Group or the parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. 
Auditor’s responsibilities 
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole 
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue our opinion in an 
auditor’s report. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an 
audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it 
exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in 
aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken 
on the basis of the financial statements. 
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRC’s website at www.frc.org.uk/
auditorsresponsibilities. 
The Company is required to include these financial statements in an annual financial report prepared 
under Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 4.1.17R and 4.1.18R. This auditor’s report provides 
no assurance over whether the annual financial report has been prepared in accordance with those requirements.
10 The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities 
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 
16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the 
Company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no 
other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to 
anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this 
report, or for the opinions we have formed. 
Mike Barradell (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor 
Chartered Accountants 
15 Canada Square
London
E14 5GL 
11 March 2025 
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

188
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
GROUP INCOME STATEMENT
For the year ended 31 December 2024
2024
2023
Notes
Underlying
 items 
1
£m
Nonunderlying
items 
(Note 10) 
£m
Total 
£m
Underlying
 items 
1
£m
Nonunderlying
items 
(Note 10) 
£m
Total 
£m
Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates
10,015
–
10,015
9,595
–
9,595
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates
20.2
(1,781)
–
(1,781)
(1,602)
–
(1,602)
Group revenue
4
8,234
–
8,234
7,993
–
7,993
Cost of sales
(7,817)
(66)
(7,883)
(7,581)
(12)
(7,593)
Gross profit/(loss)
417
(66)
351
412
(12)
400
Gain on disposals of interests in investments
35.2/35.3
43
–
43
24
–
24
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets
15
–
(4)
(4)
–
(5)
(5)
Other operating expenses
(271)
(5)
(276)
(261)
–
(261)
Group operating profit/(loss)
189
(75)
114
175
(17)
158
Share of results of joint ventures and associates excluding gain on disposals of interests in investments
59
–
59
51
–
51
Gain on disposals of interests in investments
35.2/35.3
–
–
–
2
–
2
Share of results of joint ventures and associates
20.2
59
–
59
53
–
53
Profit/(loss) from operations
6
248
(75)
173
228
(17)
211
Investment income
8
82
–
82
82
–
82
Finance costs
9
(41)
–
(41)
(49)
–
(49)
Profit/(loss) before taxation
289
(75)
214
261
(17)
244
Taxation
11
(62)
26
(36)
(56)
6
(50)
Profit/(loss) for the year
227
(49)
178
205
(11)
194
Attributable to
Equity holders
227
(49)
178
208
(11)
197
Non-controlling interests
–
–
–
(3)
–
(3)
Profit/(loss) for the year
227
(49)
178
205
(11)
194
1 Before non-underlying items (Notes 2.10 and 10).
Notes
2024
Pence
2023
Pence
Earnings per share
– basic
12
34.2
35.3
– diluted
12
33.7
34.8
Dividends per share proposed for the year
13
12.5
11.5
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

189
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Commentary on the Group income statement*
Total profit before taxation for 2024 was £214m (2023: £244m), which is inclusive of a non-underlying 
loss before tax of £75m (2023: £17m). The total profit after tax was £178m (2023: £194m).
Background
The Group income statement includes the majority of the Group’s income and expenses for the year 
with the remainder being recorded within the Group statement of comprehensive income. The Group’s 
income statement is presented showing the Group’s underlying and non-underlying results separately 
on the face of the income statement to assist in understanding the underlying financial performance 
achieved by the Group.
The income statement shows the revenue and results of continuing operations. There were no discontinued 
operations in either year. 
Revenue
Revenue from operations including the Group’s share of joint ventures and associates increased by 4% 
to £10,015m (2023: £9,595m), largely driven by increases in Gammon and Support Services. During 2024, 
Gammon delivered an increased volume of work in major civils, with the automatic people mover and 
Terminal 2 expansion projects at Hong Kong International Airport. Within Support Services, revenue 
increased by 20% to £1,210m (2023: £1,006m), mainly due to higher volumes in the road maintenance 
business, which included the first full years of the major contracts at Buckinghamshire and East Sussex, 
and increased power transmission and distribution activity.
Share of results of joint ventures and associates
Joint ventures and associates are those entities over which the Group exercises joint control or has significant 
influence and whose results are generally incorporated using the equity method whereby the Group’s 
share of the post-tax results of joint ventures and associates is included in the Group’s operating profit.
The Group’s underlying profit generated from its share of joint ventures and associates increased to 
£59m (2023: £53m), primarily driven by increased profitability in Gammon. 
Underlying profit from operations 
The underlying profit from operations for the year increased to £248m (2023: £228m), driven by higher 
volumes within Support Services contributing to £13m of the increase. Infrastructure Investments saw 
a modest increase in underlying profit of £4m primarily driven by a higher gain on disposal offset by 
increased monitor costs in the US and capitalised bidding costs being written off in the UK following 
the cancellation of a student accommodation project for which it had been awarded preferred bidder 
status. Group underlying profit increased to £189m (2023: £175m).
Non-underlying items 
Non-underlying items in 2024 amounted to a charge of £75m (2023: £17m). 
In 2024, the two remaining contracts held within Rail Germany, which the Group presents in non-underlying 
since 2014, reached the end of their warranty periods resulting in the release of warranty provisions 
held in respect of these contracts. This release has been credited to the Group’s income statement 
within non-underlying, net of provision increases relating to certain legacy liabilities remaining within the 
business. This net credit of £21m was recognised in the Construction Services segment.
In addition to this, rectification work continued to progress in relation to a development in London for 
which the costs associated with this were recognised in non-underlying and is expected to complete in 
 
the first half of 2025. In July 2024, the Group received confirmation from its insurers that the rectification 
work qualifies for insurance coverage. Upon assessment of the interim cost by the insurer’s loss 
adjusters as well as receipt of cash for the first application for payment submitted by the Group for 
a portion of the cost incurred to date, the Group has recognised an insurance recovery of £43m. 
The Group has presented this income within non-underlying in line with the presentation adopted 
for the recognition of the provision.
Following further developments and clarifications in the legal landscape of the BSA, progression of the 
Group’s investigation and due diligence as well as adjudications on claims received to date, the Group 
has reassessed its provision for BSA claims resulting in an increase in the provision of £83m in 2024. 
The provision does not include potential recoveries from third parties. This increase has been recognised 
in non-underlying due to its size and the nature of the cost, which has arisen from a change in legislation.
The Group, through a joint operation with Fluor Enterprises Inc, also recognised a charge of £52m 
within non-underlying which relates to a claim received on a legacy project in Texas which completed 
in 2012. Refer to Note 10.2.4. In October 2022, NTTA served the joint operation with a claim 
demanding damages of an unquantified amount under various claims relating to alleged breaches of 
contract and or negligence in relation to retaining walls along the project. In November 2024, through a 
jury verdict, damages were awarded against the joint operation in favour of NTTA amounting to $112m 
(Group’s share). The joint operation has opposed the NTTA’s motion and the court has yet to issue a 
decision on that motion with a court date set for 27 March 2025. The Group believes that the jury 
verdict does not accurately reflect the evidence at trial and is evaluating all options to set aside or 
reduce the verdict and, if necessary, appeal any final judgement. However, in light of the jury verdict, 
the Group has recognised a non-underlying charge of £52m. This charge, which is net of insurance 
recoveries of £40m for which the Group has received confirmation of cover from its insurers, 
represents the Group’s best estimate of the probable damages to be awarded.
Within non-underlying tax there was a £26m credit (2023: £6m) relating to the items above.
Net finance income
Net finance income of £41m increased from £33m in 2023. The increase was primarily driven by higher 
interest income on cash deposits of £40m (2023: £33m) and a net impairment reversal recognised on 
the Group’s subordinated debt and accrued interest receivable from joint ventures and associates of 
£14m compared to a net impairment charge of £8m in 2023. These increases were partially offset by 
a reduction in subdebt interest receivable of £17m and a reduction in net finance income on pension 
assets and obligations of £8m.
Taxation
The Group’s underlying profit before tax from subsidiaries of £227m (2023: £208m) resulted in an 
underlying tax charge of £62m (2023: £56m).
Earnings per share
Basic earnings per share were 34.2p (2023: 35.3p). Underlying basic earnings per share were 43.6p 
(2023: 37.3p).
* The commentary forms part of the Chief Financial Officer’s review on pages 86 to 88 and does not form part of the financial statements.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

190
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
GROUP STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
For the year ended 31 December 2024
2024
2023
Notes
Group
£m
Share of joint 
ventures and
 associates 
£m
Total 
£m
Group
£m
Share of joint 
ventures and
 associates 
£m
Total 
£m
Profit for the year
119
59
178
141
53
194
Other comprehensive (loss)/income for the year
Items which will not subsequently be reclassified to the income statement
 

Actuarial losses on retirement benefit assets/liabilities
33.1
(102)
–
(102)
(197)
(1)
(198)
 
Fair value revaluations of investments in mutual funds measured at fair value through OCI
33.1
2
–
2
1
–
1
 
Tax on above
33.1
26
–
26
49
–
49
(74)
–
(74)
(147)
(1)
(148)
Items which will subsequently be reclassified to the income statement
 
Currency translation differences
33.1
6
3
9
(17)
(13)
(30)
 
Fair value revaluations 
 
– PPP financial assets
33.1
(2)
(48)
(50)
–
20
20
 
 
– cash flow hedges
33.1
1
10
11
–
2
2
 

Recycling of revaluation reserves to the income statement on disposal^
35.3
–
–
–
–
(3)
(3)
 
Tax on above
33.1
–
10
10
(1)
(5)
(6)
5
(25)
(20)
(18)
1
(17)
Total other comprehensive loss for the year
(69)
(25)
(94)
(165)
–
(165)
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year
33.1
50
34
84
(24)
53
29
Attributable to
Equity holders
84
32
Non-controlling interests
–
(3)
Total comprehensive income for the year
33.1
84
29
^ Recycling of revaluation reserves to the income statement on disposal has no associated tax effect.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

191
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Commentary on Group statement of comprehensive income*
Total comprehensive income for 2024 was £84m comprising a total profit after tax of £178m 
and other comprehensive loss after tax of £94m.
Background
The Group statement of comprehensive income is presented on a total Group basis. Other comprehensive 
income (OCI) is categorised into items which will affect the profit and loss of the Group in subsequent 
periods when the gain or loss is realised and those which will not be recycled into the income statement.
Items which will not subsequently be reclassified to the income statement 
Actuarial movements on retirement benefit assets/liabilities are increases or decreases in the present 
value of the pension balances because of:
 
@ differences between the previous actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred; or
 
@ changes in actuarial assumptions used to value the obligations.
Actuarial losses for the Group (excluding joint ventures and associates) totalled £102m in 2024 compared 
to a £197m loss in 2023. Refer to Note 31.
Items which will subsequently be reclassified to the income statement 
Currency translation differences
The Group operates in a number of countries with different local currencies. Currency translation 
differences arise on translation of the balance sheet and results from the local functional currency 
into the Group’s presentational currency, sterling.
Fair value revaluations – PPP financial assets
Assets constructed by PPP concession companies are classified principally as financial assets 
measured at fair value through OCI. In the operational phase fair value is determined by discounting 
the future cash flows allocated to the financial asset using discount rates based on long-term gilt rates 
adjusted for the risk levels associated with the assets, with market-related fair value movements 
recognised in OCI. During the year, gilt rates have increased resulting in fair value losses including 
joint ventures and associates of £50m being taken through OCI (2023: £20m gains).
Fair value revaluations – cash flow hedges
Cash flow hedges are principally interest rate swaps to manage the interest rate and inflation rate risks 
in Infrastructure Investments’ subsidiary, joint venture and associate companies which are exposed by 
their long-term contractual agreements. The fair value of derivatives changes in response to prevailing 
market conditions. During the year, SONIA movements resulted in fair value gains on the interest rate 
swaps of £1m (2023: £nil) within the Group’s subsidiaries and £10m (2023: £2m) within the Group’s 
joint ventures and associates being recognised in OCI. 
Recycling of revaluation reserves to the income statement on disposal
Fair value gains and losses and currency translation differences recognised in OCI are transferred to 
the income statement upon disposal of the asset. No gains (2023: £3m gain) were recycled to the 
income statement from OCI and included in the gain on disposal.
There is no associated tax on the amounts recycled to the income statement.
* The commentary forms part of the Chief Financial Officer’s review on pages 86 to 88 and does not form part of the financial statements.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

192
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
GROUP STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
For the year ended 31 December 2024
Notes
Called-up
share capital
£m
Share
premium
account
£m
Capital
redemption
reserve
£m
Share of joint 
ventures’ 
and
associates’
reserves
(Note 20.6)
£m
Other 
reserves 
µ
 (Note 33.1)
£m
Retained
profits
£m
Noncontrolling
interests
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2023
294
176
52
(20)
170
706
5
1,383
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year
33.1
–
–
–
53
(17)
(4)
(3)
29
Ordinary dividends
13
–
–
–
–
–
(58)
–
(58)
Joint ventures’ and associates’ dividends
20.1
–
–
–
(60)
–
60
–
–
Purchase of treasury shares
33.1
–
–
–
–
–
(151)
–
(151)
Cancellation of ordinary shares
33.1
(22)
–
22
–
–
–
–
–
Movements relating to share-based payments+
–
–
–
–
4
(7)
–
(3)
Capital contribution
–
–
–
–
–
–
8
8
At 31 December 2023
272
176
74
(27)
157
546
10
1,208
Total comprehensive income for the year
33.1
–
–
–
34
7
43
–
84
Ordinary dividends
13
–
–
–
–
–
(61)
(1)
(62)
Joint ventures’ and associates’ dividends
20.1
–
–
–
(71)
–
71
–
–
Purchase of treasury shares
33.1
–
–
–
–
–
(101)
–
(101)
Cancellation of ordinary shares
33.1
(13)
–
13
–
–
–
–
–
Movements relating to share-based payments+
–
–
–
–
(2)
3
–
1
At 31 December 2024
259
176
87
(64)
162
501
9
1,130
 
µ Other reserves include £22m of special reserve (2023: £22m).
 
+ Movements relating to share-based payments include £4m tax credit (2023: £nil) recognised directly within retained profits.
Commentary on Group statement of changes in equity*
Total equity was £1,130m at 31 December 2024. 
Background
The Group statement of changes in equity includes the total comprehensive income/(loss) attributable 
to equity holders of the Company and non-controlling interests and also discloses transactions which 
have been recognised directly in equity and not through the income statement.
Dividends
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 8.7p. Dividends paid in the year comprised £42m for 
the final 2023 dividend 8.0p and £19m for the interim 2024 dividend 3.8p. 
Joint ventures’ and associates’ dividends 
Dividends of £71m (2023: £60m) were received in the year from joint ventures and associates (JVA), 
resulting in a transfer of this amount between JVA reserves and Group retained profits.
Purchase of treasury shares
In 2024 the Company commenced the fourth phase of its share buyback programme, which 
completed on 20 September 2024. The Company purchased 27.1m (2023: 43.3m) shares for a total 
consideration of £100m (2023: £150m) and held these in treasury with no voting rights. The purchase 
of these shares, together with associated fees and stamp duty amounting to £1m (2023: £1m), utilised 
£101m (2023: £151m) of the Company’s distributable profits.
Cancellation of ordinary shares
On 31 October 2024, the Company cancelled the 27.1m treasury shares purchased through the 2024 
phase of its share buyback programme (2023: 43.3m). This resulted in a decrease in called-up share 
capital of £13m and a corresponding increase in the capital redemption reserve (2023: £22m).
Reserves
Other reserves comprise: hedging reserves £(4)m (2023: £(5)m); PPP financial assets revaluation 
reserve £(1)m (2023: £1m); currency translation reserve £121m (2023: £115m); special reserve £22m 
(2023: £22m); and other reserves £24m (2023: £24m 
).
* The commentary forms part of the Chief Financial Officer’s review on pages 86 to 88 and does not form part of the financial statements.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

193
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Notes
Called-up
share capital 
£m
Share 
premium
account 
£m
Capital
redemption
reserve 
£m
Other 
reserves 
(Note 33.2) 
∆ 
£m
Retained 
profits 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2023
 
294
176
52
136
618
1,276
Total comprehensive income for the year
33.2
–
–
–
1
265
266
Ordinary dividends
13
–
–
–
–
(58)
(58)
Purchase of treasury shares
33.2
–
–
–
–
(151)
(151)
Cancellation of ordinary shares
33.2
(22)
–
22
–
–
–
Movements relating to share-based payments+
 
–
–
–
12
(15)
(3)
At 31 December 2023
 
272
176
74
149
659
1,330
Total comprehensive income for the year
33.2
–
–
–
–
137
137
Ordinary dividends
13
–
–
–
–
(61)
(61)
Purchase of treasury shares
33.2
–
–
–
–
(101)
(101)
Cancellation of ordinary shares
33.2
(13)
–
13
–
–
–
Movements relating to share-based payments+
–
–
–
8
(11)
(3)
At 31 December 2024
259
176
87
157
623
1,302
∆ Other reserves include £22m of special reserve (2023: £22m).
+ Movements relating to share-based payments include £nil tax credit (2023: £nil) recognised directly within retained profits.
COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
For the year ended 31 December 2024
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

194
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
BALANCE SHEETS 
At 31 December 2024
Group
Company
Notes
2024
£m
2023
£m
2024
£m
2023
£m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets – goodwill
14
854
845
–
–
 
 
– other
15
268
288
–
–
Service concession contract asset
16
69
–
–
–
Property, plant and equipment
17
136
141
–
–
Right-of-use assets 
18
153
135
–
–
Investment properties
19
101
66
–
–
Investments in joint ventures 
and associates
20
385
389
–
–
Investments
21
24
28
1,753
1,745
PPP financial assets
22
21
24
–
–
Trade and other receivables
25
326
308
370
283
Retirement benefit assets
31
43
104
–
–
Deferred tax assets
30
200
188
8
5
2,580
2,516
2,131
2,033
Current assets
Inventories
23
158
124
–
–
Contract assets
24
229
300
–
–
Trade and other receivables
25
1,099
894
1
1
Cash and cash equivalents
 

– 
infrastructure investments
28
265
306
–
–
 
– other
28
1,293
1,108
418
368
Current tax receivable
8
16
20
13
Derivative financial instruments
41
–
1
–
–
3,052
2,749
439
382
Total assets
5,632
5,265
2,570
2,415
On behalf of the Board
Leo Quinn 
Philip Harrison
Director 
Director
11 March 2025
Group
Company
Notes
2024
£m
2023
£m
2024
£m
2023
£m
Current liabilities
Contract liabilities
24
(697)
(600)
–
–
Trade and other payables
26
(1,778)
(1,734)
(658)
(591)
Provisions
27
(239)
(216)
–
–
Borrowings
 
– non-recourse loans
28
(11)
(9)
–
–
 
– other
28
(185)
(104)
(171)
(58)
Lease liabilities
29
(57)
(50)
–
–
Current tax payable
(13)
(6)
–
–
(2,980)
(2,719)
(829)
(649)
Non-current liabilities
Contract liabilities
24
(2)
(2)
–
–
Trade and other payables
26
(88)
(122)
(274)
(274)
Provisions
27
(378)
(201)
–
–
Borrowings
 
– non-recourse loans
28
(589)
(561)
–
–
 
– other
28
(165)
(162)
(165)
(162)
Lease liabilities
29
(105)
(93)
–
–
Retirement benefit liabilities
31
(41)
(35)
–
–
Deferred tax liabilities
30
(153)
(160)
–
–
Derivative financial instruments
41
(1)
(2)
–
–
(1,522)
(1,338)
(439)
(436)
Total liabilities
(4,502)
(4,057)
(1,268)
(1,085)
Net assets
1,130
1,208
1,302
1,330
Equity
Called-up share capital
32
259
272
259
272
Share premium account
33
176
176
176
176
Capital redemption reserve
33
87
74
87
74
Share of joint ventures’ and 
associates’ reserves
33
(64)
(27)
–
–
Other reserves 
33
162
157
157
149
Retained profits
33
501
546
623
659
Equity attributable to equity 
holders of the Parent
1,121
1,198
1,302
1,330
Non-controlling interests
33
9
10
–
–
Total equity
1,130
1,208
1,302
1,330
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

195
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Commentary on the Group balance sheet*
Total assets of £5,632bn were 7% higher than last year and total liabilities of £4,502bn increased 
by 11%. Net assets decreased to £1,130bn primarily driven by the Group’s actuarial losses 
impacting the Group’s net retirement benefit assets and the Group’s share buyback programme. 
Background
The Group’s balance sheet shows the Group’s assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2024 in 
accordance with IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements. 
Goodwill
The goodwill on the Group’s balance sheet at 31 December 2024 increased to £854m (2023: £845m), 
solely due to foreign currency movements.
Investments in joint ventures and associates
Investments in joint ventures and associates have remained relatively flat at £385m. Share of joint 
venture and associates profits of £59m as well as impairment reversals on loans to joint ventures and 
associates of £14m was offset by dividends of £71m. 
Working capital
Net movements in working capital are discussed in the statement of cash flows commentary on page 197.
Service concession contract asset
Service concession contract asset of £69m relates to a student accommodation project which features 
demand risk under IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements. Construction of the asset commenced in 
December 2023 and is anticipated to complete in 2028. This asset was previously presented within Intangible 
assets – Other in 2023 and has not been re-presented as the Directors do not consider this to be material.
Borrowings
Borrowings excluding non-recourse loans
As at 31 December 2024, the Group had £480m of undrawn committed bank facilities, comprising a 
£450m sustainability linked revolving credit facility (RCF) and an additional bilateral committed bank 
facility of £30m. The purpose of these facilities is to provide liquidity to support Balfour Beatty’s 
ongoing activities. 
In June 2024, the Group extended its core RCF by one year, to June 2028, with the support of the 
lending bank group. The facility was reduced from £475m to £450m in the extension process. The RCF 
remains a Sustainability Linked Loan (SLL) and subsequent to the extension in July 2024, new SLL 
metrics and targets were agreed with the lending bank group. The Group continues to be incentivised 
to deliver annual measurable performance improvement in three key areas: carbon emissions, social 
value generation and an independent Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) rating score. The RCF 
remained undrawn at 31 December 2024. 
The Group retains an additional £30m bilateral committed facility that has materially the same terms 
and conditions as the RCF. The facility is also a SLL, including metrics that mirror the RCF. In the 
second half of the year, the Group triggered its extension option in respect of the bilateral facility to 
extend the maturity to December 2027. As of 31 December 2024, the facility remained undrawn.
At 31 December 2024, the Group held $208m of USPP notes. In May 2024, the Group completed the 
early refinancing of US$50m of US Private Placement (USPP) notes that were set to mature in March 
2025. The Group raised US$50m of new USPP notes on terms and conditions that mirror existing 
notes and used this new funding to complete the early repayment of US$50m of USPP notes that 
were due to expire in March 2025. The new debt is comprised of US$25m of 7-year notes, maturing in 
May 2031, and US$25m of 12-year notes, maturing in May 2036. The refinancing exercise extended 
the debt maturity profile of the Group until 2036, with the next debt maturity of US$35m now in June 2027.
Non-recourse loans
In addition, the Group has non-recourse facilities in companies engaged in certain infrastructure 
concession projects. At 31 December 2024, the Group’s share of these non-recourse net borrowings 
amounted to £1,041m (2023: £1,362m), comprising £1,376m (2023: £1,098m) in relation to joint 
ventures and associates as disclosed in Note 20.2 and £335m (2023: £264m) on the Group balance 
sheet in relation to subsidiaries as disclosed in Note 28.
Retirement benefit assets and liabilities
The Group’s balance sheet includes net retirement benefit assets of £2m (2023: £69m) representing 
net surpluses in the Group’s pension schemes, as measured on an IAS 19 basis. The movement in 
pension surplus in the year is primarily due to actuarial losses of £102m (2023: £197m losses), partially 
offset by ongoing deficit funding of £28m (2023: £25m). Any surplus of deficit contributions would be 
recoverable by way of a refund as, according to the relevant trust deed and rules documents, the 
Group has the unconditional right to the surplus and controls the run-off of the benefit obligations 
once all other obligations of the schemes have been settled.
Other
In addition to the liabilities on the balance sheet, in the normal course of its business, the Group 
arranges for financial institutions to provide customers with guarantees in connection with its contracting 
activities, commonly referred to as bonds. These bonds provide a customer with a level of financial 
protection in the event that a contractor fails to meet its commitments under the terms of a contract. 
They are customary or mandatory in many of the markets in which the Group operates. In return for 
issuing the bonds, the financial institutions receive a fee and a counter-indemnity from the Company. 
As at 31 December 2024, contract bonds in issue by financial institutions covered £5.0bn (2023: £4.3bn) 
of the contract commitments of the Group.
Equity commitments 
During 2024, the Group invested £28m (2023: £31m) in a combination of equity and shareholder loans 
to Infrastructure Investments’ project companies and at the end of the year had committed to provide 
a further £74m from 2024 onwards, inclusive of £21m expected for projects at preferred bidder stage. 
£42m of this is expected to be invested in 2025, as disclosed in Note 42(f).
* The commentary forms part of the Chief Financial Officer’s review on pages 86 to 88 and does not form part of the financial statements.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

196
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
GROUP STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
For the year ended 31 December 2024
Notes
2024
£m
2023
£m
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash from operations
34.1
277
293
Income taxes paid
(12)
(8)
Net cash from operating activities
265
285
Cash flows from investing activities
Dividends received from:
 
– joint ventures and associates – infrastructure investments
20.5
26
24
 
– joint ventures and associates – other
20.5
45
36
 
– other investments
21
1
3
Interest received – infrastructure investments – joint ventures
20.5
7
7
Interest received subsidiaries:
 
– infrastructure investments
11
4
 
– other
40
33
Purchases of:
 
– intangible assets – infrastructure investments
15
–
(30)
 
– service concession contract asset – infrastructure investments
16
(56)
–
 
– property, plant and equipment 
17
(28)
(66)
 
– investment properties
19
(36)
(42)
 
– other investments
21
–
(2)
Investments in and long-term loans to joint ventures 
and associates
20.5
(20)
(14)
Return of equity from joint ventures and associates
20.5
–
4
PPP financial assets cash expenditure
22
(5)
(2)
PPP financial assets cash receipts
22
8
6
Disposals of:
 
– investments in joint ventures – infrastructure investments
20.5
43
56
 
– property, plant and equipment – other 
5
4
 
– other investments
21
5
12
Net cash from investing activities
46
33
Notes
2024
£m
2023
£m
Cash flows used in financing activities
Purchase of ordinary shares
33.3
(12)
(18)
Purchase of treasury shares
32
(101)
(151)
Proceeds from new loans relating to:
 
– infrastructure investments assets
34.3
36
336
 
– other
34.3
39
28
Repayments of loans relating to:
 
– infrastructure investments assets
34.3
(9)
(8)
 
– other
34.3
(40)
(197)
Repayment of lease liabilities
29
(59)
 (57)
Ordinary dividends paid
13
(61)
(58)
Other dividends paid – non-controlling interests
(1)
–
Capital contribution – non-controlling interests
–
8
Interest paid – infrastructure investments
(12)
(11)
Interest paid – other
(31)
(30)
Net cash used in financing activities
(251)
(158)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents
60
160
Effects of exchange rate changes
3
(29)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
1,310
1,179
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year
34.2
1,373
1,310
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

197
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Commentary on the Group statement of cash flows*
Cash and cash equivalents increased during the year to £1,373m. The Group generated cash 
from operating activities in the year of £265m compared to £285m in the prior year. 
Background
The Group statement of cash flows shows the cash flows from operating, investing and financing 
activities during the year.
Working capital
Working capital includes: inventories; contract assets and liabilities; trade and other receivables; trade 
and other payables; and provisions. Where the net working capital balance is in an asset position, i.e. 
the inventories and receivables balances are greater than the payables and provisions, this is referred 
to as unfavourable/positive working capital. Where this is not the case, this is referred to as favourable/
negative working capital.
Cash used in operations 
Cash inflow from operations of £277m (2023: £293m) included a profit from operations of £173m 
(2023: £211m), a working capital inflow of £99m (2023: £63m) and the following significant adjustment 
items: share of results of joint ventures and associates £59m (2023: £53m); depreciation and amortisation 
charges £129m (2023: £114m); gain on disposal of interests in investments of £43m (2023: £24m); 
and pension payments including deficit funding of £30m (2023: £28m).
Working capital movements
The movement of the individual working capital balances on the balance sheet will not be reflective 
of the underlying movement of working capital due to the balance sheet being affected by foreign 
currency movements and disposals. 
Working capital movements are disclosed in Note 34.1.
Changes in the Group’s working capital position during the year resulted in a cash inflow of £99m 
(2023: £63m inflow). The working capital inflow is largely in line with increases in revenue. 
Cash flows from investing activities
The Group received dividends of £71m (2023: £60m) from joint ventures and associates during the year.
The Group continued to invest in Infrastructure Investments assets, acquiring The Leonard in Denton, 
Texas for £36m. Construction at West Slope student accommodation project for the University of Sussex 
also continued into 2024, incurring £56m of capitalised costs in service concession contract assets. 
The Group also continued to invest in its Infrastructure Investments joint ventures and associates, 
contributing £20m (2023: £14m) in the year. £6m of this was attributable to the Group’s acquisition 
of an additional 17% stake in DTO (refer to Note 35.1).
One disposal was completed in 2024, with the Group reducing its stake in the Northside student 
accommodation project at the University of Texas in Dallas. The transaction delivered £43m of cash 
on disposal. 
Cash flows used in financing activities 
On 20 September 2024 the Company completed its 2024 share buyback programme resulting in 27.1m 
(2023: 43.3m) shares purchased for a total consideration of £101m (2023: £151m), including associated 
fees and stamp duty amounting to £1m (2023: £1m).
In May 2024, the Group used the funds raised through the issue of US$50m of new USPP notes to 
repay US$50m (£40m) of its USPP notes early that were due to mature in March 2025. The make 
whole of these notes included no early repayment settlement charges. 
The Group has total committed bank facilities of £480m, including the £450m sustainability linked 
revolving credit facility (RCF) extended in June 2024. Under the terms of these Sustainability Linked 
Loan (SLL) facilities, the Group is incentivised to deliver annual measurable performance improvement 
in three key areas: Carbon Emissions, Social Value generation and an independent Environment, Social 
and Governance (ESG) rating score – these areas of performance and the associated metrics have 
been reviewed and updated by the banking Group as of June 2024. All committed bank facilities 
were undrawn at 31 December 2024.
Interest payments amounted to £43m (2023: £41m) during the year, of which £12m (2023: £11m) 
related to infrastructure investments, £10m (2023: £12m) related to the USPP, £7m (2023: £6m) 
related to the interest paid on lease liabilities and £14m (2023: £12m) related to other finance charges. 
* The commentary forms part of the Chief Financial Officer’s review on pages 86 to 88 and does not form part of the financial statements.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

198
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 Basis of accounting
Going concern 
The Directors consider it reasonable to assume that the Group has adequate resources to continue for 
the foreseeable future and, for this reason, have continued to adopt the going concern basis in 
preparing the financial statements.
The key financial risk factors for the Group remain largely unchanged. The Group’s principal risks and 
the consequent impact these might have on the Group as well as mitigations that are in place are 
detailed on pages 94 to 105.
The Group’s US private placement and committed bank facilities contain certain financial covenants, 
such as the ratio of the Group’s EBITDA to its net debt which needs to be less than 3.0 and the ratio of 
its EBITA to net borrowing costs which needs to be in excess of 3.0. These covenants are tested on a 
rolling 12-month basis as at the June and December reporting dates. At 31 December 2024, both 
these covenants were passed as the Group had net cash and net interest income from a covenant 
test perspective. 
The Directors have carried out an assessment of the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern for 
the period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements. This assessment 
has involved the review of medium-term cash forecasts of each of the Group’s operations. The 
Directors have also considered the strength of the Group’s order book which amounted to £18.4bn 
at 31 December 2024 and will provide a pipeline of secured work over the going concern assessment 
period. These base case projections indicate that the headroom provided by the Group’s strong cash 
position and the debt facilities currently in place is adequate to support the Group over the going 
concern assessment period. 
At 31 December 2024, the Group’s only debt, other than non-recourse borrowings ring-fenced within 
certain concession companies, comprised $208m US private placement (USPP) notes. 
The Group’s £450m committed sustainability linked bank facility remained undrawn at 31 December 
2024 and is fully available to the Group until June 2028. The Group’s £30m bilateral committed facility, 
which was entered into in December 2022, also remained undrawn at 31 December and remains fully 
available to the Group until December 2027. 
The Directors have stress-tested the Group’s base case projections of both cash and profit against 
key sensitivities which could materialise as a result of adverse changes in the economic environment 
including a deterioration in commercial or operational conditions. The Group has sensitised its 
projections against severe but plausible downside scenarios which include: 
 
@ elimination of a portion of unsecured work assumed within the Group’s base case projections 
and a delay of six months for any awarded but not yet contracted work; 
 
@ a deterioration of contract judgements and restriction of a portion of the Group’s margins; and
 
@ delay in the disposal of Investments assets by 12 months. 
In the severe but plausible downside scenarios modelled, the Group continues to retain sufficient 
headroom on liquidity throughout the going concern period. Through these downside scenarios, the 
Group is still expected to be in a net cash position and to remain within its banking covenants through 
the going concern assessment period.
Based on the above and having made appropriate enquiries, the Directors consider it reasonable to assume 
that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue for the going concern period and, 
for this reason, have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Consideration of climate change
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors have considered the impact of climate change, 
particularly in the context of the risks identified in the TCFD disclosure on pages 107 to 115. There has 
been no material impact identified on the financial reporting judgements and estimates. In particular, 
the Directors considered the impact of climate change in respect of the following areas: 
 
@ contract judgements made on the Group’s Construction Services and Support Services contracts;
 
@ going concern and viability of the Group over the next three years;
 
@ cash flow forecasts used in the impairment assessments of non-current assets including the 
Group’s intangible assets such as customer contracts and goodwill;
 
@ cash flow forecasts used in the impairment assessments of the Group’s infrastructure investments assets; 
 
@ carrying value and useful economic lives of property, plant and equipment; and
 
@ the valuation of assets held within the Group’s pension schemes.
As current legislation stands, there is currently no material medium-term impact expected from climate 
change due to the contractual mechanisms and insurance arrangements in place. The Directors are 
however aware of the ever-changing risks attached to climate change and will regularly assess these 
risks against judgements and estimates made in preparation of the Group’s financial statements. 
Basis of preparation 
The annual financial statements have been prepared in accordance with UK-adopted international 
accounting standards and in conformity with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 (the Act). 
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, except as described 
under Note 2.27. The functional and presentational currency of the Company and the presentational 
currency of the Group is sterling.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

199
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
1 Basis of accounting continued
Basis of preparation continued
The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Act and have been 
prepared in accordance with FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework. In preparing these financial 
statements, the Company applies the recognition, measurement and disclosure requirements of 
UK-adopted international accounting standards, but makes amendments where necessary in order to 
comply with Companies Act 2006 and has set out below where advantage of the FRS 101 disclosure 
exemptions has been taken.
As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available 
under that standard in relation to share-based payments, financial instruments, capital management, 
presentation of a cash flow statement, related party transactions and comparative information. Where 
required, equivalent disclosures are given in the consolidated financial statements.
In addition to the application of FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of Section 408 of the Act 
and, consequently, its statement of comprehensive income (including the profit and loss account) is 
not presented as part of these financial statements.
2 Principal accounting policies
2.1 Accounting standards
Adoption of new and revised standards
The following accounting standards, interpretations and amendments have been adopted by the Group 
in the year ended 31 December 2024:
 
@ Amendments to the following standards:
 
@ IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows and IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures – Supplier 
Finance Arrangements
 
@ IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current 
 
@ IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements: Non-current Liabilities with Covenants
 
@ IFRS 16 Leases: Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback
These amended standards did not have a material effect on the Group or the Company.
Accounting standards not yet adopted by the Group
The following accounting standards, interpretations and amendments have been issued by the IASB 
but had either not been adopted by the UK or were not yet effective in the UK at 31 December 2024:
 
@ IFRS 18 Presentation and Disclosure in Financial Statements
 
@ IFRS 19 Subsidiaries without Public Accountability: Disclosures
 
@ Amendments to the following standards:
 
@ IAS 21 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates: Lack of Exchangeability
 
@ IFRS 9 and IFRS 7: Classification and Measurement of Financial Instruments
 
@ IFRS 9 and IFRS 7: Contracts Referencing Nature-dependent Electricity
 
@ Annual Improvements to IFRS Accounting Standards Volume 11
The Directors do not expect these new and amended standards to have a material effect on the Group 
or the Company and have chosen not to adopt any of the above standards and interpretations earlier 
than required.
2.2 Basis of consolidation
The Group financial statements include the results of the Company and its subsidiaries, together with 
the Group’s share of the results of joint ventures and associates, drawn up to 31 December each year.
a) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, 
or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those 
returns through its power over the entity.
The results of subsidiaries are consolidated from the date that control commences until the date that 
control ceases.
The acquisition method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiaries by the 
Group. On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at 
their fair values at the date of acquisition. Any excess of the fair value of the cost of acquisition over 
the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill. Any deficiency of the 
cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired (discount on acquisition) 
is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition. The interest of non-controlling equity 
holders is stated at the non-controlling equity holders’ proportion of the fair value of the assets and 
liabilities recognised.
When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, the profit or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference 
between: (i) the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained 
interest less direct costs of the transaction; and (ii) the previous carrying amount of the assets (including 
goodwill) less liabilities of the subsidiary. The fair value of any investment retained in the former subsidiary 
at the date when control is lost is regarded as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent 
accounting under IFRS 9 Financial Instruments or, when applicable, the cost on initial recognition 
of an investment in an associate or jointly controlled entity. Amounts previously recognised in other 
comprehensive income in relation to the subsidiary are accounted for in the same manner as would 
be required if the relevant assets or liabilities were disposed of (i.e. reclassified to profit or loss or 
transferred directly to retained earnings).
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

200
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
2 Principal accounting policies continued
2.2 Basis of consolidation continued
a) Subsidiaries continued
Any acquisition or disposal which does not result in a change in control is accounted for as a transaction 
between equity holders. The carrying amounts of the controlling and non-controlling interests are 
adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiary. Any difference between the 
fair value of the consideration paid or received and the amount by which the non-controlling interests 
are adjusted is recognised directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the Parent.
Accounting policies of subsidiaries are adjusted where necessary to ensure consistency with those 
used by the Group. All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on 
consolidation.
b) Joint ventures and associates
Joint ventures are those entities over whose activities the Group has joint control, whereby the Group 
has rights to the net assets of the entity, rather than rights to its individual assets and obligations for 
its individual liabilities.
Associates are those entities over whose financial and operating policies the Group has significant 
influence, but not control or joint control. 
The results, assets and liabilities of joint ventures and associates are incorporated in the financial 
statements using the equity method of accounting except when classified as held for sale. The equity 
return from the military housing joint ventures of the Group is contractually limited to a maximum 
level of return, beyond which the Group does not share in any further return. Therefore the Group’s 
investment in these projects is recognised at initial equity investment plus the value of the Group’s 
accrued preferred return from the underlying projects.
Any excess of the fair value of the cost of acquisition over the Group’s share of the fair values of the 
identifiable net assets of the joint venture or associate entity at the date of acquisition is recognised 
as goodwill. Any deficiency of the fair value of the cost of acquisition below the Group’s share of the 
fair values of the identifiable net assets of the joint venture or associate at the date of acquisition 
(discount on acquisition) is credited to the income statement in the period of acquisition.
Investments in joint ventures and associates are initially carried in the balance sheet at cost (including 
goodwill arising on acquisition) and adjusted by post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of net 
assets of the joint venture or associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments. 
Losses of joint ventures and associates in excess of the Group’s interest in those joint ventures and 
associates are only recognised to the extent that the Group is contractually liable for, or has a 
constructive obligation to meet, the obligations of the joint ventures and associates.
Unrealised gains and losses on transactions with joint ventures and associates are eliminated 
to the extent of the Group’s interest in the relevant joint venture or associate.
c) Joint operations
The Group’s share of the results, assets and liabilities of contracts carried out in conjunction with 
another party are included under each relevant heading in the income statement and balance sheet.
The results of a small number of joint operations are drawn up to a date other than 31 December, 
typically in the last two weeks of December. Adjustments are made for any significant transactions 
between such date and 31 December.
2.3 Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction. 
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates of exchange 
at the reporting date. Significant exchange rates used in the preparation of these financial statements 
are shown in Note 3.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the results of foreign subsidiaries, 
associates and joint venture entities are translated at average rates of exchange for the year, unless the 
exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the date of 
transactions are used. Assets and liabilities are translated at the rates of exchange prevailing at the 
reporting date. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are 
treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the rates of exchange at the 
reporting date. Currency translation differences arising are transferred to the Group’s foreign currency 
translation reserve and are recognised in the income statement on disposal of the underlying investment.
In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange risks, the Group may enter into forward foreign 
exchange contracts. Refer to Note 2.27(b) for details of the Group’s accounting policies in respect of such 
derivative financial instruments. 
2.4 Revenue recognition 
The Group recognises revenue when it transfers control over a product or service to its customer. 
Revenue is measured based on the consideration specified in a contract with a customer and excludes 
amounts collected on behalf of third parties. Where consideration is not specified within the contract 
and is therefore subject to variability, the Group estimates the amount of consideration to be received 
from its customer. The consideration recognised is the amount which is highly probable not to result 
in a significant reversal in future periods. 
Where a modification to an existing contract occurs, the Group assesses the nature of the modification 
and whether it represents a separate performance obligation required to be satisfied by the Group or 
whether it is a modification to the existing performance obligation. 
The Group does not expect to have any contracts where the period between the transfer of the promised 
goods or services to the customer and payment by the customer exceeds one year. As a consequence, 
the Group does not adjust its transaction price for the time value of money.
The Group’s activities are wide ranging, and as such, depending on the nature of the product or service 
delivered and the timing of when control is passed onto the customer, the Group will account for revenue 
over time and at a point in time. Where revenue is measured over time, the Group uses the input method 
to measure progress of delivery.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

201
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
2 Principal accounting policies continued
2.4 Revenue recognition continued
Revenue is recognised as follows: 
 
@ revenue from construction and services activities is recognised over time and the Group uses 
the input method to measure progress of delivery; 
 
@ revenue from manufacturing activities is recognised at a point in time when title has passed 
to the customer; and
 
@ dividend income in the Parent Company is recognised when the equity holders’ right to receive 
payment is established.
2.5 Construction and services contracts 
When the outcome of individual contracts can be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised by 
reference to the measure of progress at the reporting date using the input method. Costs are recognised as 
incurred and revenue is recognised on the basis of the proportion of total costs at the reporting date to the 
estimated total costs of the contract. 
Estimates of the final out-turn on each contract may include cost contingencies to take account of the 
specific risks within each contract that have been identified during the early stages of the contract. The 
cost contingencies are reviewed on a regular basis throughout the contract life and are adjusted where 
appropriate. However, the nature of the risks on contracts are such that they often cannot be resolved 
until the end of the project and therefore may not reverse until the end of the project. The estimated 
final out-turns on contracts are continuously reviewed and, in certain limited cases, recoveries from 
insurers are assessed, and adjustments made where necessary. 
No margin is recognised until the outcome of the contract can be estimated with reasonable certainty. 
Provision is made for all known or expected losses on individual contracts once such losses 
are foreseen. 
Revenue in respect of variations to contracts and incentive payments is recognised when there is an 
enforceable right to payment and it is highly probable it will be agreed by the customer. Variable 
consideration is assessed on a contract-by-contract basis according to the facts, circumstances and 
terms of each project and only recognised to the extent that it is highly probable not to significantly 
reverse in the future. Revenue in respect of claims is recognised only if it is highly probable not to reverse 
in future periods. Profit for the year includes the benefit of claims settled in the year to the extent not 
previously recognised on contracts completed in previous years.
2.6 Segmental reporting
The Group considers its Board of Directors to be the chief operating decision maker and therefore the 
segmental disclosures provided in Note 5 are aligned with the monthly reports provided to the Board of 
Directors. The Group’s reporting segments are based on the types of services provided. Operating 
segments with similar economic characteristics have been aggregated into three reportable segments 
which reflect the nature of the services provided by the Group. A description of each reportable 
segment is provided in Note 5. Further information on the business activities of each reportable 
segment is set out on pages 207 to 213.
Operating segments are aggregated on the basis of the nature of the services provided and the 
manner in which returns are earned by the Group. Further information on the nature of services 
provided within each segment is included in Note 4. 
Working capital is the balance sheet measure reported to the chief operating decision maker. The profitability 
measure used to assess the performance of the Group is underlying profit from operations.
Segment results represent the contribution of the different segments after the allocation of attributable 
corporate overheads. Transactions between segments are conducted at arm’s-length market prices. 
Segment assets and liabilities comprise those assets and liabilities directly attributable to the segments. 
Corporate assets and liabilities include cash balances, bank borrowings, tax balances and dividends 
payable. Non-recourse net borrowings are directly attributable to Infrastructure Investments and 
therefore not included within Corporate activities.
Major customers are defined as customers contributing more than 10% of the Group’s external revenue.
2.7 Pre-contract bid costs and recoveries 
Pre-contract costs are expensed as incurred until preferred bidder status is awarded at which point 
further costs are capitalised as there is a high probability that the Group would be able to recover these 
costs. Amounts subsequently recovered in respect of pre-contract costs that have been written off 
before preferred bidder status was awarded are recognised in full in the income statement when they 
are received in cash.
2.8 Profit from operations
Profit from operations is stated after the Group’s share of the post-tax results of equity accounted joint 
venture entities and associates and other operating expenses, which mainly consist of admin expenses, 
but before investment income and finance costs.
2.9 Investment income and finance costs
Interest income is accrued on a time basis using the effective interest method by reference to the 
principal outstanding and the effective interest rate, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated 
future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount.
Finance costs of debt, including premiums payable on settlement and direct issue costs, are charged 
to the income statement on an accruals basis over the term of the instrument, using the effective 
interest method. Finance costs also include interest cost on the discount unwind of lease liabilities and 
impairment of loans to joint ventures and associates and accrued interest thereon.
2.10 Non-underlying items
Non-underlying items are items of financial performance which the Group believes should be presented 
separately on the face of the income statement to assist in understanding the underlying financial 
performance achieved by the Group. Such items will not affect the absolute amount of the results for 
the period and the trend of results. The Group’s underlying results exclude non-underlying items.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

202
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
2 Principal accounting policies continued
2.10 Non-underlying items continued
Non-underlying items include:
 
@ gains and losses on the disposal of businesses and investments, unless this is part of a 
programme of releasing value from the disposal of similar businesses or investments such as 
infrastructure concessions;
 
@ costs of major restructuring and reorganisation of existing businesses;
 
@ costs of integrating newly acquired businesses;
 
@ acquisition and similar costs related to business combinations such as transaction costs;
 
@ impairment and amortisation charges on intangible assets arising on business combinations 
(amortisation of acquired intangible assets); and
 
@ impairment of goodwill.
These are examples, however, from time to time it may be appropriate to disclose further items as 
non-underlying items in order to highlight the underlying performance of the Group. Refer to Note 10. 
2.11 Taxation
The tax charge comprises current tax and deferred tax, calculated using tax rates that have been 
enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date. Current tax and deferred tax are charged or 
credited to the income statement, except when they relate to items charged or credited directly to 
equity, in which case the relevant tax is also accounted for within equity. Current tax is based on the 
profit for the year.
Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the 
tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. Deferred tax 
on such assets and liabilities is not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial 
recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other 
assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be 
available against which the temporary differences can be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax 
assets is reviewed at each reporting date.
Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures 
and associates, except where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference can be controlled 
by the Group and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same 
taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis. 
2.12 Intangible assets
a) Goodwill
Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiaries and other businesses, joint ventures and associates 
and represents the excess of the fair value of consideration over the fair value of the identifiable assets 
and liabilities acquired. Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries and other businesses is included in 
non-current assets. Goodwill on acquisitions of joint ventures and associates is included in investments 
in joint ventures and associates.
Goodwill is reviewed annually for impairment and is carried at cost less accumulated impairment 
losses. Goodwill is included when determining the profit or loss on subsequent disposal of the 
business to which it relates.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS (1 January 2004) has been 
retained at the previous UK GAAP amounts subject to being tested for impairment. Goodwill written 
off or discount arising on acquisition credited to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been 
reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
b) Other intangible assets
Other intangible assets are stated at fair value or cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment 
losses. Amortisation charges in respect of software and Infrastructure Investments intangibles are included 
in underlying items.
c) Research and development
Internally generated intangible assets developed by the Group are recognised only if all the following 
conditions are met: an asset is created that can be identified; it is probable that the asset created will 
generate future economic benefits; and the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.
Other research expenditure is written off in the period in which it is incurred.
2.13 Service concession contract asset 
Service concession contract asset is stated at cost less impairment losses and includes concession 
assets that are accounted for under IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements. These assets are 
classified as service concession contract assets whilst in the construction phase. Once construction 
is complete and the asset enters the operational phase, it is reclassified to intangible assets or PPP 
assets depending on whether the asset features demand risk. 
2.14 Property, plant and equipment 
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. 
Cost includes expenditure associated with bringing the asset to its operating location and condition. 
Refer to Note 17 for further detail.
.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

203
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
2 Principal accounting policies continued 
2.15 Investment properties
The Group classifies land and buildings which it holds to generate capital appreciation and/or to earn 
rental income as investment properties. The Group has chosen to state its investment properties at 
cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. The Group depreciates its investment 
properties over 25 years. Land is not depreciated. 
2.16 Leasing
As a lessee, the Group assesses whether a contract is, or contains, a lease at the inception of a 
contract. A lease exists if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a 
period of time in exchange for consideration. To assess if a lease exists, the Group assesses whether: 
(i) the contract involves the use of an identified asset; (ii) the Group has the right to obtain substantially 
all of the economic benefits from the use of the asset throughout the lease term; and (iii) the Group 
has the right to direct the use of the asset. In order to determine if the contract involves the use of an 
identified asset, the Group exercises judgement to assess if the supplier has a substantive substitution 
right over the asset. An asset is not identified if it has been determined that the supplier has 
substantive substitution rights.
The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date. 
The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost and subsequently depreciated over the lease term. 
The lease liability is measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at the 
commencement date, discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease, or if that rate cannot 
be readily determined, the Group’s incremental borrowing rate. The Group has elected to apply the 
practical expedient which allows the Group to use a single discount rate for a portfolio of leases with 
similar characteristics. 
The Group has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases of 
less than 12 months and leases of low value assets. Instead, the Group recognises the lease payments 
associated with these leases as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. 
2.17 Impairment of assets
Assets that have an indefinite useful life (such as goodwill arising on acquisitions) are reviewed at least 
annually for impairment. Other intangible assets, property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets 
are reviewed for impairment whenever there is any indication that the carrying amount of the asset 
may not be recoverable.
If the recoverable amount of an asset is less than its carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value-in-use. Value-in-use is 
assessed by discounting the estimated future cash flows that the asset is expected to generate. For 
this purpose assets, including goodwill, are grouped into cash-generating units representing the level 
at which they are monitored by the Board of Directors for internal management purposes. Goodwill 
impairment losses are not reversed in subsequent periods. Reversals of other impairment losses are 
recognised in income when they arise.
2.18 Investments
Investments are recognised and derecognised on the trade date where a purchase or sale of an 
investment is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the investment within the timeframe 
established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at cost, including transaction costs.
Investments in mutual funds are measured at fair value. Gains and losses arising from changes in the 
fair value of these investments are recognised in other comprehensive income. Investments that are 
held until they reach maturity are measured at amortised cost.
Investments in subsidiaries are recognised and held at cost and subsequently tested for impairment on 
an annual basis. Where an impairment is identified, a provision for impairment is recorded against the 
carrying value of the investment.
2.19 Government grants
Government grants are recognised when there is a reasonable assurance that the Group will be able 
to comply with the conditions attached to the grant and that the grant will be received. Grants are 
recognised in the income statement on a systematic basis as a deduction from the related category 
of cost in the periods in which the expenses are recognised.
2.20 Inventories
Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost includes an appropriate proportion of manufacturing overheads incurred in bringing inventories to 
their present location and condition and is determined using the first-in first-out method. Net realisable 
value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be 
incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
2.21 Trade receivables and contract retention receivables
Trade and contract retention receivables are initially recorded at fair value and subsequently measured 
at amortised cost as reduced by allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts and expected credit losses.
2.22 Trade payables and contract retention payables
Trade and contract retention payables are not interest bearing and are stated at cost.
2.23 Provisions
Provisions for insurance liabilities retained in the Group’s captive insurance arrangements, legal claims, 
defects and warranties, environmental restoration, onerous leases and other onerous commitments 
are recognised at the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the Group’s liability.
Provisions are recognised when: (i) the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result 
of a past event; (ii) it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; 
and (iii) the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably. Provisions are discounted where appropriate. 
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

204
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
2 Principal accounting policies continued
2.24 Borrowings
Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue 
costs. Premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs are included in the 
carrying amount of the instrument and are charged to the income statement on an accruals basis using 
the effective interest method together with the interest payable.
2.25 Retirement benefit costs
The Group, through trustees, operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution retirement 
and other long-term employee benefit schemes, the largest of which are of the defined benefit type 
and are funded. Defined benefit contributions are determined in consultation with the trustees, after 
taking actuarial advice.
For defined benefit pension schemes, the cost of providing benefits recognised in the income 
statement and the defined benefit obligations are determined at the reporting date by independent 
actuaries, using the projected unit credit method. The liability recognised in the balance sheet 
comprises the present value of the defined benefit pension obligations, determined by discounting 
the estimated future cash flows using the market yield on a high-quality corporate bond, less the fair 
value of the scheme assets. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the period in which they 
occur in the statement of comprehensive income.
Contributions to defined contribution pension schemes are charged to the income statement as they 
fall due.
Any surplus of deficit contributions to the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund (BBPF) and the Railways 
Pension Scheme (RPS) would be recoverable by way of a refund as, according to the relevant trust 
deed and rules documents, the Group has the unconditional right to the surplus and controls the 
run-off of the benefit obligations once all other obligations of the BBPF and RPS have been settled. 
2.26 Share-based payments 
Employee services received in exchange for the grant of equity-settled and cash-settled awards are 
charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the fair 
values of the awards at the date of grant. 
The credits in respect of the amounts charged are included within separate reserves in equity for 
equity-settled awards or within accruals for cash-settled awards until such time as the awards are 
exercised, when the shares are transferred or cash payments made to employees. 
2.27 Financial instruments 
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Group’s balance sheet when the Group 
becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
a) Classification of financial liabilities and equity instruments
Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual 
arrangements. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of 
the Group after deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded 
at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
b) Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting
The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate risk and to hedge exposures to 
fluctuations in foreign currencies in accordance with its risk management policy. The Group does not 
use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. A description of the Group’s objectives, 
policies and strategies with regard to derivatives and other financial instruments is set out in Note 41.
Derivatives are initially recognised in the balance sheet at fair value on the date the derivative 
transaction is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair values.
Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are 
recognised in the income statement together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item 
that are attributable to the hedged risk.
Changes in the fair value of the effective portion of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash 
flow hedges are recognised in other comprehensive income (OCI). Changes in the fair value of the 
ineffective portion of cash flow hedges are recognised in the income statement. Amounts originally 
recognised in OCI are transferred to the income statement when the underlying transaction occurs or, 
if the transaction results in a non-financial asset or liability, are included in the initial cost of that asset 
or liability.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting are 
recognised in the income statement as they arise.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, 
or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. At that time, any cumulative gain or loss 
on the hedging instrument recognised in OCI is retained in equity until the hedged transaction occurs. 
If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in 
OCI is transferred to the income statement for the period.
Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate 
derivatives and recorded in the balance sheet at fair value when their risks and characteristics are not 
closely related to those of the host contract. Changes in the fair value of those embedded derivatives 
recognised in the balance sheet are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
c) PPP concession companies
Assets constructed by PPP concession companies are classified principally as financial assets 
measured at fair value through OCI.
In the construction phase, income is recognised by applying an attributable profit margin to the 
construction costs representing the fair value of construction services performed. In the operational 
phase, income is recognised by allocating a proportion of total cash receivable over the life of the 
project to service costs by means of a deemed rate of return on those costs. The residual element of 
projected cash is allocated to the financial asset using the effective interest rate method, giving rise 
to interest income.
Due to the nature of the contractual arrangements, the projected cash flows can be estimated with 
a high degree of certainty.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

205
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
2 Principal accounting policies continued
2.27 Financial instruments continued
c) PPP concession companies continued
In the construction phase, the fair value of the Group’s PPP financial assets is determined by applying 
an attributable profit margin to the construction costs representing the fair value of construction 
services performed. In the operational phase, fair value is determined by discounting the future cash 
flows allocated to the financial asset using discount rates based on long-term gilt rates adjusted for the 
risk levels associated with the assets, with market-related movements in fair value recognised in OCI. 
In both instances, the fair value is reduced by allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts and 
expected credit losses. Amounts originally recognised in OCI are transferred to the income statement 
upon disposal of the asset.
2.28 Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty
The preparation of consolidated financial statements under IFRS requires management to make 
judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect amounts recognised for assets and liabilities at the 
reporting date and the amounts of revenue and expenses incurred during the reporting period. Actual 
outcomes may differ from these judgements, estimates and assumptions.
The judgements, estimates and assumptions that have the most significant effect on the carrying 
value of assets and liabilities of the Group as at 31 December 2024 are discussed below.
a) Revenue and margin recognition (estimate)
The Group’s revenue recognition and margin recognition policies, which are set out in Notes 2.4 
and 2.5, are central to how the Group values the work it has carried out in each financial year.
These policies require forecasts to be made of the outcomes of long-term construction services and 
support services contracts, which require estimates to be made of both cost and income recognition 
on each contract. On the cost side, estimates of forecasts are made on the final out-turn of each contract 
in addition to potential costs to be incurred for any maintenance and defects liabilities. On the income 
side, estimates are made on variations to consideration which typically include variations due to 
changes in scope of work, recoveries of claim income from customers, and potential liquidated 
damages that may be levied by customers. On cost reimbursable contracts there are also estimates 
required on the level of disallowable costs which requires an assessment of whether costs are 
recoverable under the terms of the contract and therefore should be recognised as income. 
Estimates are reviewed regularly throughout the contract life based on latest available information 
and adjustments are made where necessary. The Group continues to regularly assess these estimates. 
As at 31 December 2024, the Group’s contract assets, contract liabilities and contract provisions amounted 
to £229m, £699m and £617m respectively as set out in Notes 24 and 27. The Group has considered the 
nature of the estimates involved in deriving these balances and concluded that it is possible, on the 
basis of existing knowledge, that outcomes within the next financial year may be different from the 
Group’s assumptions applied as at 31 December 2024 and could require a material adjustment to the 
carrying amounts of these assets and liabilities in the next financial year. However, due to the level of 
uncertainty, combination of cost and income variables and timing across a large portfolio of contracts 
(in excess of 1,000) at different stages of their contract life, it is impracticable to provide a quantitative 
analysis of the aggregated estimates that are applied at a portfolio level.
Within this portfolio, there are a limited number of long-term contracts where the Group has incorporated 
significant estimates over contractual entitlements relating to recoveries of claim income from customers, 
suppliers and liquidated damages levied by the customer. This is in the Construction Services segment. 
These recoveries have been recognised at the amount that is considered highly probable not to 
significantly reverse. However, there are a host of factors affecting potential outcomes in respect of 
these entitlements which could result in a range of reasonably possible outcomes on these contracts 
in the following financial year, ranging from a gain of £71m to a loss of £(42)m. The Directors have 
assessed the range of reasonably possible outcomes on these limited number of contracts based on 
facts and circumstances that were present and known at the balance sheet date. As with any contract 
applying long-term contract accounting, these contracts are also affected by a variety of uncertainties 
that depend on future events, and so often need to be revised as contracts progress.
b) Non-underlying items (judgement)
Non-underlying items are items of financial performance which the Group believes should be 
presented separately on the face of the income statement to assist in understanding the underlying 
financial performance achieved by the Group. Determining whether an item is part of underlying items 
or non-underlying items requires judgement. A total non-underlying loss after tax of £10m (2023: £11m) 
was charged to the income statement for the year ended 31 December 2024. Refer to Note 10.
c) Financial assets measured at fair value through OCI (estimate)
At 31 December 2024, £1,120m (2023: £1,173m) of PPP financial assets constructed by the Group’s 
subsidiary, joint venture and associate companies were classified as financial assets measured at fair 
value through OCI. In the operational phase the fair value of these financial assets is measured at each 
reporting date by discounting the future value of the cash flows allocated to the financial asset. A range 
of discount rates is used from 5.2% to 63.4% (2023: 4.3% to 17.4%), which reflects the prevailing 
risk-free interest rates and the different risk profiles of the various concessions. These represent key 
sources of estimation uncertainty. Refer to Note 41. 
A £50m loss was taken to other comprehensive income in 2024 (2023: £20m gain) and a cumulative fair 
value gain of £148m had arisen on these financial assets as a result of market-related movements 
in the fair value of these financial assets at 31 December 2024 (2023: £198m).
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

206
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
2 Principal accounting policies continued
2.28 Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued
d) Contract provisions (estimate)
Contract provisions are liabilities of uncertain timing or amount and therefore in making a reliable 
estimate of the quantum and timing of liabilities estimates are applied and re-evaluated at each 
reporting date. The range of potential outcomes on contract provisions as a result of uncertain 
future events could result in a materially positive or negative swing to profitability and cash flow.
The Group has considered the nature of these estimates and concluded that it is possible, on the basis 
of existing knowledge, that outcomes within the next financial year may be different from the Group’s 
assumptions applied as at 31 December 2024 and could require a material adjustment to the carrying 
amounts of assets and liabilities in the next financial year. As disclosed in Note 27, the majority of the 
Group’s provision balance relates to contract provisions, which include loss provisions, defect and 
warranty provisions, where estimates are made around forecast costs, timing and whether it is 
probable there will be an outflow of future economic benefit. Contract loss provisions may also include 
estimates around variable consideration as disclosed in Note 2.28(a). However, due to the level of 
uncertainty, combination of variables and timing across a large portfolio of complex contracts at 
different stages of their contract life, it is impracticable to provide a quantitative analysis of the 
aggregated estimates that are applied at a portfolio level.
To the extent that the sensitivities disclosed in Note 2.28(a) affect a loss-making contract, this will 
have an impact on the Group’s provisions in the next financial year.
The Group also continues to provide for a number of fire safety-related claims received by the Group 
as part of its defects provision. A provision is made when there is a probable obligation and outflow, 
and the Group can reliably estimate the cost relating to its obligation. If costs are considered possible 
or cannot be reliably estimated, then they are considered to be contingent liabilities (see Note 38). 
Provisions of this nature are inherently uncertain as the estimated costs are based on a number of key 
estimates and assumptions which include, but are not limited to, the extent of defects that may exist, 
the cost of rectifying these defects and the consideration of what was considered to comply with 
building safety regulations at the time these buildings were constructed. These estimates are also 
inherently uncertain due to the highly complex and bespoke nature of each building. The Directors have 
used various externally available information and internal assessments as a basis for the estimated 
remedial costs for the fire safety claims received to date. The actual costs will ultimately be subject to 
the progression of investigative works, remedial works carried out, settlements of ongoing claims, 
and the evolution of current legislation and regulation which will impact the scope of any remediation 
works required and therefore it is impracticable to provide a quantitative analysis of the aggregated 
estimates across the Group for these fire safety-related claims. There are also potential avenues to 
recovering a portion of these costs from third parties, which have not been recognised by the Group 
at this stage. 
Within the fire defect population, there are claims received under the retrospective Building Safety Act 
(BSA) legislation introduced in 2022 (refer to Note 10.2.3) ) for which the Group is carrying a defect 
provision amounting to £82m at 31 December 2024 (2023: £21m). If the forecast remediation costs 
relating to BSA claims received to date were 15% higher / lower than provided, the pre-tax 
non‑underlying charge in the Group’s income statement would increase / decrease by £12m. However, 
if further BSA claims are notified, this could also increase the required provision, but the potential 
quantity and timing of this change cannot be readily determined without further claims being made 
against the Group and, subsequently, the necessary investigative work being conducted on these 
claims. The scope of buildings and remediation works to be considered may also change as legislation 
and regulations continue to evolve relating to BSA. 
Included within contract provisions is the Group’s provision of £93m, excluding insurance recoveries, 
relating to the claim recognised within non-underlying items for the SH161 project in Texas, which was 
completed in 2012. Refer to Note 10.2.4 for further information. The final outcome of the cost of the 
claim to the Group will depend on the result of the court hearing scheduled for 27 March 2025, 
settlement negotiations or the outcome of any appeals that are launched, as well as potential recoveries 
from other third parties that the Group may receive. As such, within non-underlying items there is a 
range of reasonably possible outcomes in the following financial year, ranging from a gain of £53m to 
a loss of £(37)m.
The Group continues to regularly assess these estimates.
e) Retirement benefit obligations (estimate)
Details of the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes are set out in Note 31, including tables 
showing the sensitivity of the pension scheme obligations and assets to different actuarial 
assumptions.
At 31 December 2024, the net retirement benefit assets recognised on the Group’s balance sheet 
were £2m (2023: £69m). The effects of changes in the actuarial assumptions underlying the schemes’ 
obligations (including inflation and mortality) and discount rates and the differences between expected 
and actual returns on the schemes’ assets are classified as actuarial gains and losses. During 2024, the 
Group recognised net actuarial losses of £102m (2023: £198m) in OCI, including its share of the 
actuarial gains and losses arising in joint ventures and associates. 
3 Exchange rates
The following key exchange rates were applied in these financial statements:
Average rates
£1 buys
2024
2023
Change
US$
1.28
1.24
3.2%
HK$
9.98
9.73
2.6%
Closing rates
£1 buys
2024
2023
Change
US$
1.25
1.27
(1.6)%
HK$
9.73
9.95
(2.2)%
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

207
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
4 Revenue
4.1 Nature of services provided 
4.1.1 Construction Services 
The Group’s Construction Services segment encompasses activities in relation to the physical construction of assets provided to public and private customers. Revenue generated in this segment is measured 
over time as control passes to the customer as the asset is constructed. Progress is measured by reference to the cost incurred on the contract to date compared to the contract’s end of job forecast (the input 
method). Payment terms are based on a schedule of value that is set out in the contract and fairly reflect the timing and performance of service delivery. Contracts with customers are typically accounted for as 
one performance obligation (PO).
Types of assets
Typical contract length
Nature, timing of satisfaction of performance obligations and significant payment terms
Buildings 
12 to 36 months
The Group constructs buildings which include commercial, healthcare, education, retail and residential assets. As part of its construction services, 
the Group provides a range of services including design and/or build, mechanical and electrical engineering, shell and core and/or fit-out and interior 
refurbishment. The Group’s customers in this area are a mix of private and public entities. 
The contract length depends on the complexity and scale of the building and contracts entered into for these services are typically fixed price.
In most instances, the contract with the customer is assessed to only contain one PO as the services provided by the Group, including those where 
the Group is also providing design services, are highly interrelated. However, for certain types of contracts, services relating to fit-out and interior 
refurbishment may sometimes be assessed as a separate PO.
Infrastructure
1 to 3 months for small-scale 
infrastructure works 
24 to 60 months for large-scale 
complex construction
The Group provides construction services for three main types of infrastructure assets: highways, railways and other large-scale infrastructure assets 
such as waste, water and energy plants.
Highways represent the Group’s activities in constructing motorways in the UK, US and Hong Kong. This includes activities such as design and 
construction of roads, widening of existing motorways or converting existing motorways. The main customers are government bodies.
Railway construction services include design and managing the construction of railway systems delivering major multi-disciplinary projects, track work, 
electrification and power supply. The Group serves both public and private railways including high-speed passenger railways, freight and mixed traffic 
routes, dense commuter networks, metros and light rail.
Other infrastructure assets include construction, design and build services on large-scale complex assets predominantly servicing the waste, water and 
energy sectors.
Contracts entered into relating to these infrastructure assets can take the form of fixed-price, cost-plus or target-cost contracts with shared pain/gain 
mechanisms. Contract lengths vary according to the size and complexity of the asset build and can range from a few months for small-scale 
infrastructure works to four to five years for large-scale complex construction works.
In most cases, the contract itself represents a single PO where only the design and construction elements are contracted. In some instances, the contract 
with the customer will include maintenance of the constructed asset. The Group assesses the maintenance element as a separate PO and revenue from 
this PO is recognised in the Support Services segment. Refer to Note 4.1.2.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

208
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
4 Revenue continued
4.1 Nature of services provided continued
4.1.2 Support Services
The Group’s work in this segment supports existing assets through maintaining, upgrading and managing services across utilities and infrastructure assets. Revenue generated in this segment is measured 
over time as control passes to the customer as and when services are provided. Progress is measured by reference to the cost incurred on the contract to date compared to the contract’s end of job forecast 
(the input method). Payments are structured as milestone payments set out in the respective contracts.
Types of assets
Nature, timing of satisfaction of performance obligations and significant payment terms
Utilities 
Within the Group’s services contracts, the Group provides support services to various types of utility assets. 
For contracts servicing power transmission and distribution assets, the Group constructs and maintains electricity networks, including replacement or new build of overhead lines, 
underground cabling, cable tunnels and offshore wind farm maintenance. Contracts entered into are fixed-price, cost-plus or target cost with shared pain/gain mechanisms. Contract 
lengths can vary from 12 to 36 months. Each contract is normally assessed to contain one PO. However, where a contract contains both a construction phase and a maintenance 
phase, these are assessed to contain two separate POs.
Infrastructure 
The Group provides maintenance, asset and network management and design services in respect of highways, railways and other publicly available assets. The customer in this area 
of the Group is mainly government bodies. Types of contract include a fixed schedule of rates, fixed-price, target-cost arrangements and cost-plus. 
Contract terms range from 1 to 25 years. Where contracts include a lifecycle element, this is accounted for as a separate PO and recognised when the work is delivered.
4.1.3 Infrastructure Investments
The Group invests directly in a variety of assets, predominantly consisting of infrastructure assets where there are opportunities to manage the asset upon completion of construction. The Group also invests in 
real estate type assets, in particular private residential and student accommodation assets. Revenue generated in this segment is from the provision of construction, maintenance and management services and 
also from the recognition of rental income. The Group’s strategy is to hold these assets until optimal values are achieved through disposal of mature assets.
Types of services 
Nature, timing of satisfaction of performance obligations and significant payment terms 
Service concessions 
The Group operates a UK and US portfolio of service concession assets comprising assets in the roads, healthcare, student accommodation, biomass and waste and offshore transmission 
sectors. The Group accounts for these assets under IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements. 
Where the Group constructs and maintains these assets, the two services are deemed to be separate performance obligations and accounted for separately. If the maintenance phase 
includes a lifecycle element, this is considered to be a separate PO. 
Contract terms can be up to 40 years. The Group recognises revenue over time using the input method. Consideration is paid through a fixed unitary payment charge spread over the 
life of the contract. 
Revenue from this service is presented across Buildings, Infrastructure or Utilities in Note 4.2. 
Management services 
The Group provides real estate management services such as property development and asset management services. Contract terms can be up to 50 years. The Group recognises revenue 
over time as and when service is delivered to the customer.
Revenue from this service is presented within Buildings in Note 4.2.
Housing development 
The Group also develops housing units on land that is owned by the Group. Revenue is recognised on the sale of individual units at the point in time when control of the asset is 
transferred to the purchaser. This is deemed to be when an unconditional sale is achieved.
Revenue from this service is presented within Buildings in Note 4.2.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

209
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
4 Revenue continued 
4.2 Disaggregation of revenue
The Group presents a disaggregation of its revenue according to the primary geographical markets in which the Group operates as well as the types of assets serviced by the Group. The nature of the various 
services provided by the Group is explained in Note 4.1. This disaggregation of revenue is also presented according to the Group’s reportable segments as described in Note 5.
For the year ended 31 December 2024
Revenue by primary geographical markets
Revenue by types of assets serviced
United
Kingdom
£m
United
States
£m
Rest of 
world
£m
Total
£m
Buildings
£m
Infrastructure
£m
Utilities
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Construction 
Services
Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 
3,010
3,638
1,551
8,199
4,178
3,465
417
139
8,199
Group revenue
3,010
3,619
1
6,630
3,420
2,657
414
139
6,630
Support Services
Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 
1,209
–
1
1,210
12
782
385
31
1,210
Group revenue
1,209
–
1
1,210
12
782
385
31
1,210
Infrastructure 
Investments
Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 
201
401
4
606
445 
+
153
8
–
606
Group revenue
99
295
–
394
390 
+
4
–
–
394
Total revenue
Revenue including share of joint ventures 
and associates 
4,420
4,039
1,556
10,015
4,635
4,400
810
170
10,015
Group revenue
4,318
3,914
2
8,234
3,822
3,443
799
170
8,234
+ Includes rental income of £48m including share of joint ventures and associates or £26m excluding share of joint ventures and associates.
Timing of revenue recognition
Construction
Services
£m
Support
Services
£m
Infrastructure
Investments
£m
Total
£m
Over time 
8,194
1,209
587
9,990
At a point in time 
5
1
19
25
Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates
8,199
1,210
606
10,015
Over time 
6,625
1,209
375
8,209
At a point in time 
5
1
19
25
Group revenue
6,630
1,210
394
8,234
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

210
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
4 Revenue continued
4.2 Disaggregation of revenue continued
For the year ended 31 December 2023
Revenue by primary geographical markets
Revenue by types of assets serviced
United
Kingdom
£m
United
States
£m
Rest of 
world
£m
Total
£m
Buildings
£m
Infrastructure
£m
Utilities
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
Construction 
Services
Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 
3,025
3,697
1,359
8,081
3,954
3,440
595
92
8,081
Group revenue
3,025
3,669
1
6,695
3,284
2,738
581
92
6,695
Support Services
Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 
1,003
–
3
1,006
9
661
326
10
1,006
Group revenue
1,003
–
3
1,006
9
661
326
10
1,006
Infrastructure 
Investments
Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates 
164
338
6
508
346 
+
146
16
–
508
Group revenue
63
228
1
292
289 
+
3
–
–
292
Total revenue
Revenue including share of joint ventures and 
associates 
4,192
4,035
1,368
9,595
4,309
4,247
937
102
9,595
Group revenue
4,091
3,897
5
7,993
3,582
3,402
907
102
7,993
+ Includes rental income of £53m including share of joint ventures and associates or £21m excluding share of joint ventures and associates.
4.2.1 Timing of revenue recognition
Timing of revenue recognition
Construction
Services
£m
Support
Services
£m
Infrastructure
Investments
£m
Total
£m
Over time 
8,076
1,002
496
9,574
At a point in time 
5
4
12
21
Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates
8,081
1,006
508
9,595
Over time 
6,690
1,002
280
7,972
At a point in time 
5
4
12
21
Group revenue
6,695
1,006
292
7,993
4.3 Transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations (excluding joint ventures and associates)
2025
£m
2026
£m
2027
onwards
£m
Total
£m
Construction Services
5,808
3,397
3,684
12,889
Support Services 
851
559
1,822
3,232
Infrastructure Investments 
201
99
2,316
2,616
Total transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations
6,860
4,055
7,822
18,737
The total transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations represents the contracted revenue to be earned by the Group for distinct goods and services which the Group has promised to 
deliver to its customers. These include promises which are partially satisfied at the period end or those which are unsatisfied but which the Group has committed to providing. In deriving this transaction price, 
any element of variable revenue is estimated at a value that is highly probable not to reverse in the future. The transaction price above does not include any estimated revenue to be earned on framework 
contracts for which a firm order or instruction has not been received from the customer.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

211
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
5 Segment analysis
Reportable segments of the Group:
 
@ Construction Services – activities resulting in the physical construction of an asset;
 
@ Support Services – activities which support existing assets or functions such as asset maintenance and refurbishment; and
 
@ Infrastructure Investments – acquisition, operation and disposal of infrastructure assets such as roads, hospitals, student accommodation, military housing, multifamily residences, offshore transmission 
networks, waste and biomass and other concessions. This segment also includes the Group’s housing development division.
5.1 Total Group
2024
2023
Income statement – performance by activity
Construction
Services 
£m
Support
Services 
£m
Infrastructure
Investments
£m
Corporate
activities 
£m
Total
£m
Construction
Services 
£m
Support
Services 
£m
Infrastructure
Investments
£m
Corporate
activities
£m
Total
£m
Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates
8,199
1,210
606
–
10,015
8,081
1,006
508
–
9,595
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates
(1,569)
– 
(212)
–
(1,781)
(1,386)
–
(216)
–
(1,602)
Group revenue
6,630
1,210
394
–
8,234
6,695
1,006
292
–
7,993
Group operating profit/(loss)1
118
93
17
(39)
189
120
80
14
(39)
175
Share of results of joint ventures and associates
41
–
18
–
59
36
–
17
–
53
Profit/(loss) from operations1
159
93
35
(39)
248
156
80
31
(39)
228
Non-underlying items:
 
– net release of provisions relating to Rail Germany
21
–
–
–
21
–
–
–
–
–
 
– 
recognition of insurance recovery / (provision) in relation 
to rectification works on a development in London
43
–
–
–
43
(12)
–
–
–
(12)
 
– 
provision recognised in relation to claims made under 
the Building Safety Act
(83)
–
–
–
(83)
–
–
–
–
–
 
– 
charge recognised in relation to a legacy claim received 
for a project completed in 2012 in Texas 
(52)
–
–
–
(52)
–
–
–
–
–
 
– 
amortisation of acquired intangible assets
(1)
–
(3)
–
(4)
(1)
–
(4)
–
(5)
(72)
–
(3)
–
(75)
(13)
–
(4)
–
(17)
Profit/(loss) from operations
87
93
32
(39)
173
143
80
27
(39)
211
Investment income
82
82
Finance costs
(41)
(49)
Profit before taxation
214
244
1 Before non-underlying items (Notes 2.10 and 10).
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

212
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
5 Segment analysis continued
5.1 Total Group continued
2024
2023
Assets and liabilities by activity
Construction
Services 
£m
Support
Services 
£m
Infrastructure
Investments
£m
Corporate
activities 
£m
Total
£m
Construction
Services
£m
Support
Services
£m
Infrastructure
Investments
£m
Corporate
activities 
£m
Total
£m
Contract assets
116
70
43
–
229
203
69
28
–
300
Contract liabilities – current
(506)
(188)
(3)
–
(697)
(506)
(90)
(4)
–
(600)
Inventories
47
48
63
–
158
45
25
54
–
124
Trade and other receivables – current
939
99
22
39
1,099
768
73
33
20
894
Trade and other payables – current
(1,470)
(198)
(59)
(51)
(1,778)
(1,491)
(176)
(48)
(19)
(1,734)
Provisions – current
(213)
(6)
(3)
(17)
(239)
(187)
(4)
(7)
(18)
(216)
Working capital*
(1,087)
(175)
63
(29)
(1,228)
(1,168)
(103)
56
(17)
(1,232)
Total assets
2,209
520
1,309
1,594
5,632
2,168
459
1,260
1,378
5,265
Total liabilities
(2,635)
(524)
(683)
(660)
(4,502)
(2,484)
(385)
(664)
(524)
(4,057)
Net assets
(426)
(4)
626
934
1,130
(316)
74
596
854
1,208
* Includes non-operating items and current working capital. 
2024
2023
Other information
Construction
Services 
£m
Support
Services 
£m
Infrastructure
Investments
£m
Corporate
activities 
£m
Total
£m
Construction
Services 
£m
Support
Services 
£m
Infrastructure
Investments
£m
Corporate
activities 
£m
Total
£m
Capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment (Note 17)
7
18
–
3
28
8
47
–
11
66
Capital expenditure on intangible assets (Note 15)
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
30
–
30
Capital expenditure on service concession contract assets (Note 
16)
–
–
56
–
56
–
–
–
–
–
Depreciation (Note 17, Note 18 and Note 19)
23
57
3
9
92
28
48
2
9
87
Gain on disposals of interests in investments (Note 35.2/35.3) 
–
–
43
–
43
–
–
24
–
24
Gain on disposals of interests in investments within joint ventures 
and associates (Note 35.2/35.3)
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
2
–
2
2024
2023
Performance by geographic destination
United
Kingdom
2024
£m
United 
States
2024
£m
Rest of 
world
2024
£m
Total
2024
£m
United
Kingdom
2023
£m
United 
States
2023
£m
Rest of 
world
2023
£m
Total
2023
£m
Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates
4,420
4,039
1,556
10,015
4,192
4,035
1,368
9,595
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates
(102)
(125)
(1,554)
(1,781)
(101)
(138)
(1,363)
(1,602)
Group revenue
4,318
3,914
2
8,234
4,091
3,897
5
7,993
Major customers
Included in Group revenue are revenues of £2,291m (2023: £1,981m) from the US Government and £3,475m (2023: £3,198m) from the UK Government, which are the Group’s two largest customers, 
through multiple central and regional bodies. These revenues are included in the results across all three reported segments.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

213
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
5 Segment analysis continued 
5.2 Infrastructure Investments
2024
2023
Group
2024
£m
Share of joint
ventures and
associates
(Note 20.2) 
+
2024
£m
Total
2024
£m
Group
2023
£m
Share of joint
ventures and
associates
(Note 20.2) 
+
2023
£m
Total
2023
£m
Underlying profit/(loss) from operations1
UK^
(2)
9
7
(1)
3
2
North America
2
9
11
7
12
19
Gain on disposals of interests in investments (Note 35.2/35.3)
43
–
43
24
2
26
43
18
61
30
17
47
Bidding costs and overheads
(26)
–
(26)
(16)
–
(16)
17
18
35
14
17
31
Net assets/(liabilities)
UK^
478
105
583
412
121
533
North America
193
185
378
152
175
327
671
290
961
564
296
860
Non-recourse borrowings net of associated cash and cash equivalents (Note 28)
(335)
–
(335)
(264)
–
(264)
Total Infrastructure Investments net assets
336
290
626
300
296
596
+ The Group’s share of the results of joint ventures and associates is disclosed net of investment income, finance costs and taxation. 
^  Including Ireland
1  Before non-underlying items (Notes 2.10 and 10).
6 Profit/(loss) from operations
6.1 Profit/(loss) from operations is stated after charging/(crediting)
2024
£m
2023
£m
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
31
28
Depreciation of right-of-use assets
60
57
Depreciation of investment properties
1
2
Amortisation of other intangible assets
10
12
Amortisation of contract fulfilment assets
27
15
Net (credit)/charge of trade receivables impairment provision
(6)
5
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment
(2)
(2)
Government grant income
(9)
(6)
Cost of inventory recognised as an expense
141
222
Auditor’s remuneration
6
6
6.2 Analysis of auditor’s remuneration 
2024
£m
2023 
£m
Services as auditor to the Company
0.8
0.8
Services as auditor to Group subsidiaries
4.4
4.3
Total audit fees
5.2
5.1
Audit-related assurance fees
0.6
0.5
Total non-audit fees
0.6
0.5
Total fees in relation to audit and other services
5.8
5.6
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

214
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
7 Employee costs
7.1 Group
Employee costs during the year
2024
£m
2023
£m
Wages and salaries
1,398
1,318
Redundancy costs
5
6
Social security costs
101
97
Pension costs (Note 31)
59
58
Share-based payments (Note 36)
26
24
1,589
1,503
Average number of Group employees
2024
Number
2023
Number
Construction Services
 11,971
12,069
Support Services
 4,751
4,375
Infrastructure Investments
 1,695
1,636
Corporate
 151
146
18,568
18,226
Detailed disclosures of items of remuneration, including those accruing under the Company’s 
equity-settled share-based payment arrangements can be found within the Remuneration report on 
pages 153 to 174. 
7.2 Company 
The Company did not have any employees and did not incur any employee costs in the year (2023: 
£nil). Balfour Beatty Group Employment Ltd, which was established in February 2013, remains the 
employing entity for the Balfour Beatty Group’s UK employees.
8 Investment income
2024
£m
2023
£m
Subordinated debt interest receivable
17
34
Interest receivable on PPP financial assets (Note 22)
2
2
Interest received on bank deposits
40
33
Other interest receivable and similar income
2
–
Impairment reversal of joint ventures and associates
 
– loans
17
–
 
– accrued interest
–
1
Net finance income on pension scheme assets and obligations (Note 31.2)
4
12
82
82
9 Finance costs
2024
£m
2023
£m
Non-recourse borrowings
 
– bank loans and overdrafts
12
11
US private placement
 
– finance cost
10
12
Interest on lease liabilities (Note 29)
7
6
Fair value loss on investment asset (Note 21)
2
1
Other interest payable
 
– committed facilities
2
3
 
– letter of credit fees
1
2
 
– other finance charges
4
5
Impairment of joint ventures and associates
 
– loans
2
9
 
– accrued interest
1
–
41
49
The net impairment reversal of loans to joint ventures and associates and accrued interest receivable of 
£14m (2023: £8m net impairment) relates to expected credit loss assessments performed. All of the 
net impairment reversals relate to subordinated debt and accrued interest receivable from joint 
ventures and associates held within the Infrastructure Investments segment.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

215
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
10 Non-underlying items
2024
£m
2023
£m
Items (charged against)/credited to profit
10.1
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets
(4)
(5)
10.2
Other non-underlying items:
– net release of provisions relating to Rail Germany
21
–
– 
recognition of insurance recovery / (provision) in relation to rectification works on a development in London
43
(12)
– 
provision recognised in relation to claims made under the Building Safety Act
(83)
–
– 
charge recognised in relation to a claim received for a legacy project completed in 2012 in Texas 
(52)
–
Total other non-underlying items
(71)
(12)
Charged against profit before taxation 
(75)
(17)
10.3
Tax credit: 
– tax on amortisation of acquired intangible assets
1
3
– tax on other items above
25
3
Total tax credit
26
6
Charged against profit for the year
(49)
(11)
10.1 The amortisation of acquired intangible assets comprises: customer contracts £3m (2023: £4m); and customer relationships £1m (2023: £1m). 
The charge was recognised in the following segments: Construction Services £1m (2023: £1m); and Infrastructure Investments £3m (2023: £4m).
10.2.1 In 2014, Rail Germany was reclassified from discontinued operations and has since been presented as part of the Group’s non-underlying items within continuing operations in line with the Group’s 
continued commitment to exit this part of the business.
In 2024, the two remaining contracts held within Rail Germany reached the end of their warranty periods resulting in the release of warranty provisions held in respect of these contracts. This release has been 
credited to the Group’s income statement within non-underlying, net of provision increases relating to certain legacy liabilities remaining within the business. This net credit of £21m was recognised in the 
Construction Services segment.
10.2.2 In 2021, the Group recognised a provision of £42m within non-underlying in relation to rectification work to be carried out on a development in London which was constructed by the Group between 2013 
and 2016. The rectification work includes the replacement of stone panels affixed to the façade of the development to meet performance requirements as well as an estimate of any potential consequential 
disruption to the development as a result of these rectification works. In 2023, the Group increased this provision to £54m following a reassessment of the rectification cost. The additional charge to the income 
statement was also recognised in non-underlying. The Group’s estimated provision did not include potential recoveries from third parties. 
In 2024, rectification work continued to progress and is expected to complete in first half of 2025. In July 2024, the Group received confirmation from its insurers that the rectification work qualifies for insurance 
coverage. Upon assessment of the interim cost by the insurer’s loss adjusters as well as receipt of cash for the first application for payment submitted by the Group for a portion of the cost incurred to date, the 
Group has recognised an insurance recovery of £43m. The Group has presented this income within non-underlying in line with the presentation adopted for the recognition of the provision.
Both the provision for the rectification work and the insurance coverage have been recognised within the Construction Services segment.
10.2.3 The Building Safety Act (BSA), which was introduced in 2022, extends the limitation for claims under the Defective Premises Act 1972 from 6 years to 30 years for dwellings completed before 28 June 2022. 
Since the introduction of the BSA, the Group has conducted investigations and due diligence on claims received to establish whether an obligation exists and if costs can be reliably estimated. The Group has 
recognised a provision where a probable obligation has been established and costs associated with the claim can be reliably estimated. Previously, the charge relating to this provision has been recognised 
within the Group’s underlying results as the amounts recognised did not result in a distortion of the Group’s underlying results. 
In 2024, following further developments and clarifications in the legal landscape of the BSA, progression of the Group’s investigation and due diligence as well as adjudications on claims received to date, the 
Group has reassessed its provision for BSA claims resulting in an increase in the provision of £83m. The provision does not include potential recoveries from third parties. This increase has been recognised in 
non-underlying due to its size and the nature of the cost, which has arisen from a change in legislation.
This charge has been recognised in the Construction Services segment.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

216
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
10 Non-underlying items continued
10.2.4 In 2012, the Group, through a joint operation formed with Fluor Enterprises Inc. in which the 
Group owns a 40% share, completed a contract with the North Texas Tollway Authority (NTTA) to 
provide design and build services in relation to the extension of NTTA’s President George Bush 
Turnpike Highway (SH161 in Texas). In October 2022, NTTA served the joint operation with a claim 
demanding damages of an unquantified amount under various claims relating to alleged breaches of 
contract and/or negligence in relation to retaining walls along the project. In November 2024, through a 
jury verdict, damages were awarded against the joint operation in favour of NTTA amounting to $112m 
(Group’s share). This jury verdict was substantially above the claim presented to the court of $77m 
(Group’s share) comprising $8m expended to date and $69m for possible repair costs over the next 10 
years. The NTTA has moved to enter the verdict as a judgement and is also requesting pre-judgement 
interest of $50m (Group’s share) plus legal costs. The joint operation has opposed the NTTA’s motion 
and the court has yet to issue a decision on that motion with a court date set for 27 March 2025. The 
Group believes that the jury verdict does not accurately reflect the evidence at trial and is evaluating all 
options to set aside or reduce the verdict and, if necessary, appeal any final judgement. The appeal 
would require a surety bond of $10m (Group share) to be provided in place of settling the judgement. 
However, in light of the jury verdict, the Group has recognised a non-underlying charge of £52m. This 
charge, which is net of insurance recoveries of £40m for which the Group has received confirmation of 
cover from its insurers, represents the Group’s best estimate of the probable damages to be awarded. 
The Group maintains the view that these damages are a result of design elements of the contract 
which were performed by subcontractors to the joint operation. The Group, together with its joint 
operation partner, is pursuing recoveries from these subcontractors, however at this stage, the Group 
has not recognised any potential recoveries from these parties. 
This charge has been recognised in the Construction Services segment and has been included within 
the Group’s non-underlying results due to the size of the provision.
10.3.1 The amortisation of acquired intangible assets gave rise to a tax credit of £1m (2023: £3m credit).
10.3.2 The remaining non-underlying items recognised in the Group’s operating profit gave rise to a 
current tax credit of £25m (2023: £3m), of which £2m credit relates to net provision releases relating to 
Rail Germany, £11m charge relates to the insurance recovery for rectification works on a development 
in London, £21m credit relates to the increase in provision for BSA claims and £13m credit relates to 
the charge recognised in relation to a claim received for a legacy project completed in 2012 in Texas.
11 Income taxes
11.1 Income tax charge/(credit)
2024
2023
Underlying
items 
1 
£m
Non-underlying
 items 
(Note 10) 
£m
Total 
£m
Total 
£m
Total UK tax
39
(10)
29
35
Total non-UK tax
23
(16)
7
15
Total tax charge/(credit) 
x
62
(26)
36
50
UK current tax
– current tax
17
(10)
7
4
– adjustments in respect of previous periods
5
–
5
–
22
(10)
12
4
Non-UK current tax
– current tax
14
–
14
1
– adjustments in respect of previous periods
2
–
2
(3)
16
–
16
(2)
Total current tax 
38
(10)
28
2
UK deferred tax
– origination and reversal of temporary differences 
22
–
22
30
– UK corporation tax rate change
–
–
–
2
– adjustments in respect of previous periods
(5)
–
(5)
(1)
17
–
17
31
Non-UK deferred tax
– 
origination and reversal of temporary 
differences
10
(16)
(6)
16
– adjustments in respect of previous periods
(3)
–
(3)
1
7
(16)
(9)
17
Total deferred tax
24
(16)
8
48
Total tax charge/(credit) 
x
62
(26)
36
50
x Excluding joint ventures and associates.
1 Before non-underlying items (Notes 2.10 and 10).
The Group has recognised a £26m tax credit (2023: £6m) within non-underlying items in the year. 
Refer to Note 10.3.1 and 10.3.2.
The Group tax charge excludes amounts for joint ventures and associates (refer to Note 20.2), 
except where tax is levied at the Group level.
In addition to the Group tax charge, tax of £36m has been credited (2023: £43m) directly to Group 
other comprehensive income, comprising: a tax credit of £26m for subsidiaries (2023: £48m); and a 
tax credit in respect of joint ventures and associates of £10m (2023: £5m charge). A tax credit of £4m 
(2023: £nil) has been recognised directly in Group equity relating to share-based payments comprising 
a current tax credit of £2m (2023: £2m credit) and a deferred tax credit of £2m (2023: £2m charge). 
Refer to Note 33.1. 
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

217
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
11 Income taxes continued 
11.2 Income tax charge/(credit) reconciliation
2024
£m
2023
£m
Profit before taxation including share of results from joint ventures 
and associates 
214
244
Less: share of results of joint ventures and associates
(59)
(53)
Profit before taxation
155
191
Add: 
non-underlying items charged excluding share of joint ventures 
and associates
75
17
Underlying profit before taxation for subsidiaries1
230
208
Tax on underlying profit before taxation at standard UK corporation tax 
rate of 25% (2023: 23.5%)
58
49
Adjusted for the effects of: 
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes and other permanent items 
–
7
Non-taxable disposals 
–
(6)
Tax levied at Group level on share of joint ventures’ and associates’ profits# 
3
3
Utilisation of other losses not previously recognised
(1)
(1)
Current year losses not recognised
1
–
Effect of tax rates in non-UK jurisdictions
2
3
Recognition of UK deferred tax at 25%
–
2
Adjustments in respect of previous periods
(1)
(1)
Total tax charge on underlying profit
62
56
Add: tax credit in non-underlying items (Note 10.3)
(26)
(6)
Total tax charge on profit from operations
36
50
# These are mainly in connection with US joint ventures and associates where tax is levied at the Group level rather than within the 
share of joint ventures and associates.
1 Before non-underlying items (Notes 2.10 and 10).
The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development’s (OECD) released Pillar Two model 
rules in December 2021 introducing a global minimum tax rate of 15% to address the tax concerns 
about uneven profit distribution and tax contributions of large multinational corporations.
The Pillar Two top-up tax rules were substantially enacted in the UK in 2023 with application from 
1 January 2024. Having carried out a detailed assessment of the Pillar 2 rules and its application, 
the Group has determined that no top-up is owed for any of its operations globally, as it is subject 
to taxes exceeding the global minimum in every jurisdiction in which it operates.
The Group has applied the temporary mandatory relief from deferred tax accounting for the impacts 
of any top-up tax and accounts for it as a current tax when it is incurred.
12 Earnings per share
Earnings
2024
2023
Basic
£m
Diluted
£m
Basic
£m
Diluted
£m
Earnings
178
178
197
197
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets – 
including tax credit of £1m (2023: £3m credit)
3
3
2
2
Other non-underlying items – including tax 
credit of £25m (2023: £3m credit)
46
46
9
9
Underlying earnings
227
227
208
208
2024
2023
Basic
m
Diluted
m
Basic
m
Diluted
m
Weighted average number of ordinary shares
521
528
558
566
The basic earnings per ordinary share is calculated by dividing the profit for the year attributable 
to equity holders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, 
excluding treasury shares and shares held in the Employee Share Ownership Trust.
The diluted earnings per ordinary share uses an adjusted weighted average number of shares and 
includes shares that are potentially outstanding in relation to the equity-settled share-based payment 
arrangements detailed in Note 36.
Potential dilutive effect of ordinary shares issuable under equity-settled share-based payment 
arrangements is 7m (2023: 8m).
Earnings per share
2024
2023
Basic
pence
Diluted
pence
Basic
pence
Diluted
pence
Earnings per ordinary share
34.2
33.7
35.3
34.8
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets 
after tax
0.6
0.6
0.4
0.4
Other non-underlying items after tax
8.8
8.7
1.6
1.6
Underlying earnings per ordinary share
43.6
43.0
37.3
36.8
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

218
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
13 Dividends
2024
2023
Per share
Pence
Amount
£m
Per share
Pence
Amount
£m
Proposed dividends for the year
Interim – current year
3.8
19
3.5
19
Final – current year
8.7
44&
8.0
43
12.5
63
11.5
62
Recognised dividends for the year
Final – prior year
42
39
Interim – current year
19
19
61
58
& Amount dependent on number of shares on the register on 16 May 2025.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on 8 May 2025, the final 2024 dividend will be paid 
on 2 July 2025 to holders on the register on 16 May 2025 by direct credit or, where no mandate has 
been given, by cheque posted by 2 July 2025. The ordinary shares will be quoted ex-dividend on 
15 May 2025. The last date for Dividend Reinvestment Plan (DRIP) elections will be 11 June 2025.
14 Intangible assets – goodwill
Cost 
£m
Accumulated
impairment
losses 
£m
Carrying
amount 
£m
At 1 January 2023
1,106
(230)
876
Currency translation differences
(37)
6
(31)
At 31 December 2023
1,069
(224)
845
Currency translation differences
5
4
9
At 31 December 2024
1,074
(220)
854
Carrying amounts of goodwill by segment
2024
2023
United
Kingdom
£m
United
States
£m
Total
£m
United
Kingdom
£m
United
States
£m
Total
£m
Construction 
Services
260
468
728
260
460
720
Support Services
73
– 
73
73
–
73
Infrastructure 
Investments
–
53
53
–
52
52
Group
333
521
854
333
512
845
Carrying amounts of goodwill by cash-generating unit (CGU)
2024
2023
£m
Pre-tax
discount rate
%
£m
Pre-tax
discount rate
%
UK Regional and Engineering Services
248
10.8%
248
10.7
Balfour Beatty Construction Group Inc
445
11.2%
437
11.1
Rail UK
68
11.2%
68
11.0
Balfour Beatty Investments US
53
11.2%
52
11.3
Other
40
10.9%
40
11.0
Group total
854
845
The recoverable amount of goodwill is based on value-in-use, a key input of which is forecast cash 
flows. The Group’s cash flow forecasts are based on the expected future revenues and margins of 
each CGU, giving consideration to the current level of confirmed and anticipated orders. Cash flow 
forecasts for the next three years are based on the Group’s Three-Year Plan, which covers the period 
from 2025 to 2027. The cash flow forecasts for each CGU were compiled from each of its constituent 
business units as part of the Group’s annual financial planning process.
The other key inputs in assessing each CGU are its long-term growth rate and discount rate. The 
discount rates have been calculated using the Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) method, 
which takes account of the Group’s capital structure (financial risk) as well as the nature of each CGU’s 
business (operational risk). Long-term growth rates are assumed to be the estimated future GDP 
growth rates based on published independent forecasts for the country or countries in which each 
CGU operates, less 1.0% to reflect current economic uncertainties and their consequent estimated 
effect on public sector spending on infrastructure.
In the derivation of each CGU’s value-in-use, a terminal value is assumed based on a multiple of 
earnings before interest and tax. The multiple is applied to a terminal cash flow, which is the 
normalised cash flow in the last year of the forecast period. However, due to the long-term nature 
and the degree of predictability of some contracts within Balfour Beatty Investments US, the forecast 
period used in the derivation of this CGU’s value-in-use extends beyond the Group’s three-year cash 
flow forecast period in line with the duration of the contracts disclosed in Note 42(e). The EBIT multiple 
is calculated using the Gordon Growth Model and is a factor of the discount rate and growth rate for 
each CGU. The nominal terminal value is discounted to present value.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

219
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
14 Intangible assets – goodwill continued
2024
2023
Inflation rate
%
Real growth
rate
%
Nominal
long-term 
growth rate
applied 
x
%
Inflation rate
%
Real growth
rate
%
Nominal
long-term 
growth rate
appliedx
%
UK Regional and 
Engineering Services
2.4
1.2
3.6
2.8
1.1
3.9
Balfour Beatty 
Construction Group 
Inc
2.2
1.7
3.9
2.2
1.7
3.9
Rail UK
2.4
1.2
3.6
2.8
1.1
3.9
Balfour Beatty 
Investments US 
2.2
1.7
3.9
2.2
1.7
3.9
Other
2.3
1.5
3.8
2.6
1.3
3.9
x These nominal long-term growth rates are reduced by 1.0% when performing goodwill assessments to reflect current economic 
uncertainties and their consequent estimated effect on public sector spending on infrastructure.
Sensitivities
The Group’s impairment review is sensitive to changes in the key assumptions used. The major 
assumptions that result in significant sensitivities are the discount rate and the long-term growth rate, 
and for certain CGUs, changes to underlying cash projections. 
A reasonable possible change in key assumptions would not give rise to an impairment in any of the 
Group’s CGUs.
15 Intangible assets – other
Customer
contracts
£m
Customer
relationships
£m
Brand
names
£m
Infrastructure
Investments
intangibles
£m
Software
and other
£m
Total
£m
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2023
244
55
3
237
129
668
Currency translation 
differences
(14)
(3)
–
–
(1)
(18)
Additions
–
–
–
30
–
30
Fair value movement 
on loan associated 
with intangible asset
–
–
–
(19)
–
(19)
At 31 December 2023
230
52
3
248
128
661
Currency translation 
differences
4
1
–
–
–
5
Reclassified to service 
concession contract 
asset (Note 16)
–
–
–
(11)
–
(11)
At 31 December 2024
234
53
3
237
128
655
Accumulated 
amortisation
At 1 January 2023
(189)
(48)
(3)
(13)
(123)
(376)
Currency translation 
differences
11
3
–
–
1
15
Charge for the year 
(4)
(1)
–
(5)
(2)
(12)
At 31 December 2023
(182)
(46)
(3)
(18)
(124)
(373)
Currency translation 
differences
(3)
(1)
–
–
–
(4)
Charge for the year 
(3) 
(1) 
–
(5)
(1)
(10)
At 31 December 2024
(188)
(48)
(3)
(23)
(125)
(387)
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2024
46
5
–
214
3
268
At 31 December 2023
48
6
–
230
4
288
Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives, which are one 
to four years for customer contracts, three to ten years for customer relationships, three to seven years 
for software, and up to five years for brand names, except for customer contracts and relationships 
relating to Balfour Beatty Investments North America which are amortised on a basis matching the 
returns earned over the life of the underlying contracts and relationships of up to 50 years. 
The Infrastructure Investments intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over the life 
of the projects, which is 50 years.
Other intangible assets are amortised over periods up to 10 years.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

220
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
16 Service concession contract asset
Total cost
£m
Reclassified from intangible assets – other (Note 15)
11
Additions
56
Reclassify arrangement fee to borrowings (Note 34.3)
(3)
Amortisation of fair value adjustment on service concession 
loan (Note 34.3)
5
At 31 December 2024
69
Service concession contract asset of £69m relates to University of Sussex’s West Slope student 
accommodation project which features demand risk under IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements. 
This has been classified as a service concession contract asset whilst the asset is in the construction 
phase. Construction of the student accommodation commenced in December 2023 and is anticipated 
to complete in 2028. In the year, construction spend was £56m (2023: £30m).
In 2023, a fair value movement of £19m was recognised against the value of the asset, which will 
unwind over the course of the construction phase. The unwind in 2024 amounted to £5m. 
This service concession asset was previously presented within Intangible assets – Other in 2023 and 
has not been re-presented in the comparative period as the Directors do not consider this to be material.
17 Property, plant and equipment
Land and
buildings
£m
Plant and
equipment
£m
Assets in
the course of
construction
£m
Total
£m
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2023
57
277
1
335
Currency translation differences
(1)
(5)
–
(6)
Transfers 
–
1
(1)
–
Additions 
4
48
14
66
Reclassified from right-of-use assets (Note 18)
4
–
–
4
Removal of fully depreciated assets/assets 
scrapped
(3)
(5)
–
(8)
Disposals
–
(15)
–
(15)
At 31 December 2023
61
301
14
376
Currency translation differences
1
1
–
2
Transfers 
–
4
(4)
–
Additions 
2
19
7
28
Removal of fully depreciated assets/assets scrapped
(1)
(5)
–
(6)
Disposals
–
(16)
–
(16)
At 31 December 2024
63
304
17
384
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2023
(43)
(188)
–
(231)
Currency translation differences 
1
3
–
4
Charge for the year 
(4)
(24)
–
(28)
Removal of fully depreciated assets/assets 
scrapped
3
5
–
8
Reclassified from right-of-use assets (Note 18)
(1)
–
–
(1)
Disposals
–
13
–
13
At 31 December 2023
(44)
(191)
–
(235)
Currency translation differences 
–
(1)
–
(1)
Charge for the year 
(4)
(27)
–
(31)
Removal of fully depreciated assets/assets scrapped
1
5
–
6
Disposals
–
13
–
13
At 31 December 2024
(47)
(201)
–
(248)
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2024
16
103
17
136
At 31 December 2023
17
110
14
141
Except for land and assets in the course of construction, the costs of property, plant and equipment 
are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives. Buildings are depreciated at 
2.5% per annum and plant and equipment is depreciated at 4% to 33% per annum.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

221
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
18 Right-of-use assets 
Land and
buildings
£m
Plant and
equipment
£m
Motor 
vehicles 
£m
Total
£m
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2023
95
46
106
247
Currency translation differences 
(3)
(1)
–
(4)
Additions 
11
16
47
74
Removal of fully depreciated assets/assets scrapped
(6)
(4)
(14)
(24)
Reclassified to property, plant and equipment 
(Note 17)
(4)
–
–
(4)
Lease modification
–
–
(1)
(1)
Disposals 
(4)
(2)
(10)
(16)
At 31 December 2023
89
55
128
272
Currency translation differences 
1
–
–
1
Additions 
15
19
47
81
Removal of fully depreciated assets/assets scrapped
(11)
(7)
(12)
(30)
Transfers
–
15
(15)
–
Disposals 
(2)
(2)
(12)
(16)
At 31 December 2024
92
80
136
308
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2023
(40)
(20)
(60)
(120)
Currency translation differences 
1
1
–
2
Charge for the year 
(18)
(11)
(28)
(57)
Removal of fully depreciated assets/assets scrapped
6
4
14
24
Reclassified to property, plant and equipment 
(Note 17)
1
–
–
1
Disposals 
4
1
8
13
At 31 December 2023
(46)
(25)
(66)
(137)
Charge for the year 
(15)
(13)
(32)
(60)
Removal of fully depreciated assets/assets scrapped
11
7
12
30
Transfers
–
(10)
10
–
Disposals 
1
1
10
12
At 31 December 2024
(49)
(40)
(66)
(155)
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2024
43
40
70
153
At 31 December 2023
43
30
62
135
19 Investment properties
Cost
£m
Accumulated 
depreciation
£m
Carrying 
amount
£m
At 1 January 2023
35
(8)
27
Currency translation differences
(1)
–
(1)
Additions
42
–
42
Depreciation charge for the year 
–
(2)
(2)
At 31 December 2023
76
(10)
66
Additions
36
–
36
Depreciation charge for the year 
–
(1)
(1)
At 31 December 2024
112
(11)
101
Investment properties are held by the Group to generate rental income and capital appreciation. 
The Group has chosen to account for its investment property assets under the cost method. In 2024, 
the Group acquired a new student accommodation property in Denton, Texas, for £36m. The Group 
has non-recourse project-specific financing amounting to £73m (2023: £48m), which is secured 
through floating charges over the properties. 
Once a property is ready for use, the Group ceases capitalisation of interest cost and commences 
depreciation on the property, on a straight-line basis over 25 years. The Group generated £10m (2023: £7m) 
of rental income from its investment properties.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

222
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
20 Investments in joint ventures and associates
20.1 Movements
Net
assets 
+
£m
Loans 
^ 
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2023
320
106
426
Currency translation differences
(16)
–
(16)
Income recognised 
53
–
53
Fair value revaluation of PPP financial assets (Note 33.1)
20
–
20
Fair value revaluation of cash flow hedges (Note 33.1)
2
–
2
Actuarial movements on retirement benefit assets/liabilities 
(Note 33.1)
(1)
–
(1)
Tax on items taken directly to other comprehensive income 
(Note 33.1)
(5)
–
(5)
Dividends
(60)
–
(60)
Additions
14
–
14
Disposal of Gloucester Waste (Note 35.3)
(7)
(24)
(31)
Return of equity
(4)
–
(4)
Impairment of loans to joint ventures and associates (Note 9)
–
(9)
(9)
At 31 December 2023
316
73
389
Currency translation differences
4
–
4
Income recognised 
59
–
59
Fair value revaluation of PPP financial assets (Note 33.1)
(48)
–
(48)
Fair value revaluation of cash flow hedges (Note 33.1)
10
–
10
Tax on items taken directly to other comprehensive income 
(Note 33.1)
10
–
10
Dividends
(71)
–
(71)
Additions
15
–
15
Acquisition of DTO (Note 35.1)
6
–
6
Transfer movement in negative investment in joint venture 
to provisions (Note 27)
(3)
–
(3)
Loans repaid
–
(1)
(1)
Net impairment reversal of loans to joint ventures and 
associates (Note 8)
–
15
15
At 31 December 2024
298
87
385
+ Includes goodwill and intangible assets arising on acquisition of the Group’s interests in investments in joint ventures and 
associates.
^ Loans include subordinated debt receivable from joint ventures and associates within the Infrastructure Investments segment.
The principal joint ventures and associates are shown in Note 42. 
The amount of the Group’s share of borrowings of joint ventures and associates which was supported 
by the Group and the Company was £nil (2023: £nil). 
The non-recourse borrowings of joint venture and associate entities relating to infrastructure 
concessions projects are repayable over periods extending up to 2057. The non-recourse borrowings 
arise under facilities taken out by project-specific joint venture and associate concession companies. 
The borrowings of each concession company are secured by a combination of fixed and floating 
charges over that concession company’s interests in its project’s assets and revenues and the shares 
in the concession company held by its immediate parent company. A significant part of these loans has 
been swapped into fixed rate debt by the use of interest rate swaps.
As disclosed in Note 42(f), the Group has committed to provide its share of further equity funding of 
joint ventures and associates in Infrastructure Investments’ projects and military housing concessions. 
Further, in respect of a number of these investments the Group has committed not to dispose of its 
equity interest until construction is complete. As is customary in such projects, banking covenants 
restrict the payment of dividends and other distributions.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

223
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
20 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued 
20.2 Share of results and net assets of joint ventures and associates
2024
2023
Infrastructure Investments
Infrastructure Investments
Income statement 
Construction
Services
£m
Support
Services
£m
UK 
^ 
£m
North
America 
£m
Total 
£m
Total
£m
Construction
Services
£m
Support
Services
£m
UK 
^ 
£m
North
America 
£m
Total
£m
Total
£m
Revenue
1,569
–
104
108
212
1,781
1,386
–
103
113
216
1,602
Operating profit excluding gain on 
disposals of interests in investments
40
–
33
17
50
90
33
–
2
21
23
56
Gain on disposals of interests in 
investments
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
2
2
2
Operating profit
40
–
33
17
50
90
33
–
2
23
25
58
Investment income
9
–
66
15
81
90
10
–
74
16
90
100
Finance costs
(1)
–
(61)
(23)
(84)
(85)
(1)
–
(73)
(25)
(98)
(99)
Profit before taxation
48
–
38
9
47
95
42
–
3
14
17
59
Taxation
(7)
–
(11)
–
(11)
(18)
(6)
–
–
–
–
(6)
Profit after taxation from joint 
ventures and associates 
41
–
27
9
36
77
36
–
3
14
17
53
Adjustment for expected credit losses 
at Group level 
–
–
(18)
–
(18)
(18)
–
–
–
–
–
–
Profit after taxation 
41
–
9
9
18
59
36
–
3
14
17
53
^ Including Ireland.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

224
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
2024
2023
Infrastructure Investments
Infrastructure Investments
Balance sheet
Construction
Services
£m
Support
Services
£m
UK 
^ 
£m
North
America 
£m
Total 
£m
Total
£m
Construction
Services
£m
Support
Services
£m
UK 
^ 
£m
North
America 
£m
Total
£m
Total
£m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 
 
– 
Infrastructure Investments
–
–
13
–
13
13
–
–
14
–
14
14
 
– other
9
–
11
1
12
21
–
–
12
–
12
12
Property, plant and equipment
24
–
–
39
39
63
21
–
–
–
–
21
Investment properties
–
–
–
173
173
173
–
–
–
232
232
232
Investments in joint ventures 
and associates
4
1
–
–
–
5
7
–
–
–
–
7
Money market funds
–
–
–
1
1
1
–
–
–
44
44
44
PPP financial assets
–
–
833
266
1,099
1,099
–
–
905
244
1,149
1,149
Military housing projects
–
–
–
116
116
116
–
–
–
113
113
113
Other non-current assets
115
–
23
8
31
146
107
–
24
13
37
144
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents
334
–
158
24
182
516
340
–
146
20
166
506
Other current assets
395
–
87
2
89
484
310
3
55
5
60
373
Total assets
881
1
1,125
630
1,755
2,637
785
3
1,156
671
1,827
2,615
Current liabilities
Borrowings – non-recourse
–
–
(35)
–
(35)
(35)
–
–
(36)
–
(36)
(36)
Other current liabilities
(607)
(1)
(172)
(5)
(177)
(785)
(549)
(3)
(158)
(30)
(188)
(740)
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings – non-recourse
(104)
–
(750)
(438)
(1,188)
(1,292)
(94)
–
(767)
(461)
(1,228)
(1,322)
Other non-current liabilities
(116)
–
(149)
–
(149)
(265)
(90)
–
(147)
(5)
(152)
(242)
Total liabilities
(827)
(1)
(1,106)
(443)
(1,549)
(2,377)
(733)
(3)
(1,108)
(496)
(1,604)
(2,340)
Net assets 
54
–
19
187
206
260
52
–
48
175
223
275
Goodwill
32
–
–
–
–
32
31
–
–
–
–
31
Reclassify negative investment 
to provisions 
7
–
–
–
–
7
10
–
–
–
–
10
Loans to joint ventures and associates
–
–
86
–
86
86
–
–
73
–
73
73
Total investment in joint ventures 
and associates
93
–
105
187
292
385
93
–
121
175
296
389
^ Including Ireland.
The Group’s investment in military housing joint ventures’ and associates’ projects is recognised at its remaining equity investment plus the value of the Group’s accrued returns from the underlying projects. 
The military housing joint ventures and associates have total non-recourse net borrowings of £2,053m (2023: £2,090m). Note 42(e) details the Group’s military housing projects.
20 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued
20.2 Share of results and net assets of joint ventures and associates continued
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

225
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
20 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued 
20.2 Share of results and net assets of joint ventures and associates continued
On certain Infrastructure Investments concessions where net fair value revaluations of PPP financial 
assets and cash flow hedges resulted in the Group’s carrying value of these investments being 
negative, the Group has not recognised losses beyond the carrying value of its investments. This is 
because the Group has not committed to provide any further funding to these investments and the 
borrowings within these concessions are non-recourse to the Group. At 31 December 2024, the 
unrecognised cumulative net fair value charges to other comprehensive income amounted to £56m 
(2023: £66m). 
20.3 Aggregate information of joint ventures and associates
2024
2023
Joint
 ventures
£m
Associates
£m
Total 
£m
Joint
ventures
£m
Associates
£m
Total
£m
The Group’s share of profit from 
operations
47
12
59
42
11
53
The Group’s share of other 
comprehensive income 
(25)
–
(25)
2
(2)
–
Aggregate carrying amount of the 
Group’s interest
269
116
385
276
113
389
20.4 Details of material joint ventures
Gammon China Ltd
Connect Plus (M25) Ltd
2024
£m
2023 
£m
2024
£m
2023 
£m
Proportion of the Group’s ownership 
interest in the joint venture
50%
50%
15%
15%
Income statement
Revenue
3,099
2,715
223
231
Underlying operating profit^
74
65
20
20
Investment income
19
21
149
146
Finance costs
(2)
(3)
(99)
(101)
Income tax charge
(13)
(12)
(18)
(15)
Profit
78
71
52
50
Total other comprehensive(loss)/income
(2)
–
(58)
18
Total comprehensive income/(loss) (100%)
76
71
(6)
68
Group’s share of total comprehensive 
income/(loss)
38
36
(1)
10
Dividends received by the Group during 
the year
39
36
5
5
Gammon China Ltd
Connect Plus (M25) Ltd
Balance sheet
2024
£m
2023 
£m
2024
£m
2023 
£m
Non-current assets
289
270
1,556
1,682
Current assets
Cash and cash equivalents
632
654
128
123
Other current assets
775
613
78
74
1,407
1,267
206
197
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables
(1,010)
(897)
(59)
(64)
Provisions
(45)
(49)
–
–
Borrowings – non-recourse
–
–
(19)
(19)
Other current liabilities
(79)
(101)
(14)
(10)
(1,134)
(1,047)
(92)
(93)
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables
(172)
(126)
–
–
Provisions
(39)
(33)
–
–
Borrowings – non-recourse
(209)
(189)
(1,097)
(1,137)
Other non-current liabilities (including 
shareholder loans)
(21)
(20)
(382)
(419)
(441)
(368)
(1,479)
(1,556)
Net assets (100%)
121
122
191
230
Reconciliation of the above summarised financial 
information to the carrying amount of the interest in 
the above joint ventures recognised in the 
consolidated financial statements:
Net assets of joint venture (100%)
121
122
191
230
Group’s share of net assets
61
61
29
35
Add: Group’s interest in shareholder loans
–
–
26
26
Goodwill
32
31
–
–
Carrying amount of the Group’s interest 
in the joint venture
93
92
55
61
^ Includes depreciation charge of £14m (2023: £18m) and amortisation charge of £12m (2023: £12m) for Gammon China Ltd. 
There were no depreciation or amortisation charges for Connect Plus (M25) Ltd (2023: £nil). 
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

226
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
20 Investments in joint ventures and associates continued
20.5 Cash flow from/(to) joint ventures and associates
Infrastructure Investments
Infrastructure Investments
Cash flows from investing activities
UK 
^
2024
£m
North
America
2024
£m
Other
2024
£m
Total
2024
£m
UK 
^
2023
£m
North
America
2023
£m
Other
2023
£m
Total
2023
£m
Dividends from joint ventures and associates
10
16
45
71
9
15 
+
36
60
Subordinated debt interest received
7
–
–
7
7
–
–
7
Investments in and loans to joint ventures and associates
(1)
(13)
(6)
(20)
(9)
(5)
–
(14)
Equity
(2)
(13)
–
(15)
(9)
(5)
–
(14)
Acquisition of DTO (Note 35.1)
–
–
(6)
(6)
–
–
–
–
Subordinated debt repaid
1
–
–
1
–
–
–
–
Return of equity from joint ventures and associates
–
–
–
–
–
4 
+
–
4
Net cash flow from joint ventures and associates
16
3
39
58
7
14
36
57
^ Including Ireland.
+ In 2023, dividends and return of equity from joint ventures and associates included £1m and £4m respectively of proceeds generated from the disposal of Moretti Apartments.
20.6 Share of reserves of joint ventures and associates
Accumulated
profit/(loss)
£m
Hedging
reserve
£m
PPP 
financial
assets
£m
Currency
translation
reserve
£m
Total 
(Note 33.1)
£m
At 1 January 2023
(34)
(30)
(14)
58
(20)
Currency translation differences
–
–
–
(13)
(13)
Income recognised 
53
–
–
–
53
Fair value revaluation of PPP financial assets
–
–
20
–
20
Fair value revaluation of cash flow hedges
–
2
–
–
2
Actuarial movements on retirement benefit assets/liabilities 
(1)
–
–
–
(1)
Tax on items taken directly to other comprehensive income
–
(1)
(4)
–
(5)
Dividends
(60)
–
–
–
(60)
Recycling of revaluation reserves to the income statement on disposal
–
(9)
6
–
(3)
At 31 December 2023
(42)
(38)
8
45
(27)
Currency translation differences
–
–
–
3
3
Income recognised 
59
–
–
–
59
Fair value revaluation of PPP financial assets
–
–
(48)
–
(48)
Fair value revaluation of cash flow hedges
–
10
–
–
10
Tax on items taken directly to other comprehensive income
–
(2)
12
–
10
Dividends
(71)
–
–
–
(71)
At 31 December 2024
(54)
(30)
(28)
48
(64)
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

227
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
21 Investments
21.1 Group
Corporate
bonds 
£m
Investments in
mutual funds 
£m
Other
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2023
2
20
18
40
Additions 
–
–
2
2
Fair value gains/(losses)
–
1
(1)
–
Maturities
(2)
–
(7)
(9)
Interest accrued 
–
1
–
1
Benefits paid
–
(3)
–
(3)
Dividends 
–
–
(3)
(3)
At 31 December 2023
–
19
9
28
Currency translation differences 
–
1
–
1
Fair value gains/(losses)
–
2
(2)
–
Interest accrued 
–
1
–
1
Disposals
–
–
(2)
(2)
Benefits paid
–
(3)
–
(3)
Dividends
–
–
(1)
(1)
At 31 December 2024
–
20
4
24
The investments in mutual funds comprise holdings in a number of funds, based on employees’ 
investment elections, in respect of the deferred compensation obligations of the Group as disclosed in 
Note 31.2. The fair value of these investments is £19m (2023: £19m), determined by the market price 
of the funds at the reporting date.
Other investments relate to the Group’s interest in two Limited Partnerships (LPs) incorporated in Bermuda. 
The principal activity of the two LPs is to receive carried interest from a fund. Carry interest refers to a 
performance fee payable once the performance of the fund exceeds agreed hurdles. During the year, 
the Group recognised £2m fair value loss in relation to its carry interest (2023: £1m). The fund matured 
in January 2025, with one remaining asset to be disposed. All gains will be realised by the final 
maturity date. Dividends of £1m were received from the fund in the year (2023: £3m). 
21.2 Company
2024
£m
2023
£m
Investment in subsidiaries
1,779
1,771
Provisions
(26)
(26)
1,753
1,745
The increase of investment in subsidiaries of £8m (2023: £12m) relates to new capital injected into the 
Company’s existing subsidiaries. Including provisions recognised to date, the Directors have assessed 
the Company’s investment in subsidiaries to be fully recoverable.
22 PPP financial assets
Economic
infrastructure
£m
Social 
infrastructure
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2023
21
5
26
Income recognised in the income statement:
 
– interest income (Note 8)
2
–
2
Other movements:
 
– cash expenditure
2
–
2
 
– cash received
(6)
–
(6)
At 31 December 2023
19
5
24
Income recognised in the income statement:
 
– interest income (Note 8)
2
–
2
Losses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income:
 
– fair value movements
(1)
(1)
(2)
Other movements:
 
– cash expenditure
3
2
5
 
– cash received
(6)
(2)
(8)
At 31 December 2024
17
4
21
Assets constructed by PPP subsidiary concession companies are classified as financial assets 
measured at fair value through OCI and are denominated in sterling. The maximum exposure to credit 
risk at the reporting date is the fair value of the PPP financial assets.
There were no impairment provisions in 2024 or 2023.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

228
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
23 Inventories
2024
£m
2023
£m
Raw materials and consumables
95
69
Development and housing land and work in progress
63
54
Finished goods and goods for resale
–
1
158
124
24 Contract balances
The timing of revenue recognition, billings and cash collection results in trade receivables (billed 
amounts), contract assets (unbilled amounts) and customer advances and deposits (contract liabilities) 
on the Group’s balance sheet. For services in which revenue is earned over time, amounts are billed in 
accordance with contractual terms, either at periodic intervals or upon achievement of contractual 
milestones. The timing of revenue recognition is measured in accordance with the progress of delivery 
on a contract which could either be in advance or in arrears of billing, resulting in either a contract asset 
or a contract liability. 
24.1 Contract assets
£m
At 1 January 2023
300
Currency translation differences
(4)
Transfers from contract assets recognised at the beginning of the year to receivables 
(241)
Increase related to services provided in the year 
265
Reclassified from contract liabilities (Note 24.2)
(11)
Impairments on contract assets recognised at the beginning of the year
(9)
At 31 December 2023
300
Currency translation differences
3
Transfers from contract assets recognised at the beginning of the year to receivables 
(220)
Increase related to services provided in the year 
168
Reclassified from contract liabilities (Note 24.2)
(16)
Impairments on contract assets recognised at the beginning of the year
(6)
At 31 December 2024
229
24.2 Contract liabilities
£m
At 1 January 2023
(665)
Currency translation differences 
19
Revenue recognised against contract liabilities at the beginning of the year
561
Increase due to cash received, excluding amounts recognised as revenue during the year 
(528)
Reclassified to contract assets (Note 24.1)
11
At 31 December 2023
(602)
Currency translation differences 
(6)
Revenue recognised against contract liabilities at the beginning of the year
537
Increase due to cash received, excluding amounts recognised as revenue during the year 
(644)
Reclassified to contract assets (Note 24.1)
16
At 31 December 2024
(699)
The amount of revenue recognised in the year from performance obligations satisfied (or partially 
satisfied) in previous periods amounted to £2m (2023: £4m).
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

229
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
25 Trade and other receivables
Group 
2024 
£m
Group 
2023 
£m
Company 
2024 
£m
Company 
2023 
£m
Current 
Trade receivables
616
484
–
–
Less: provision for impairment of trade 
receivables 
(2)
(8)
–
–
614
476
–
–
Due from joint ventures and associates 
16
16
–
–
Due from joint operation partners
5
4
–
–
Contract fulfilment assets
17
19
–
–
Contract retentions receivable
242
227
–
–
Accrued income
12
13
–
–
Prepayments 
65
57
–
–
Other receivables+
128
82
1
1
1,099
894
1
1
Non-current
Due from subsidiaries 
–
–
367
279
Due from joint ventures and associates
123
111
1
1
Contract fulfilment assets
34
40
–
–
Contract retentions receivable
102
150
–
–
Other receivables+
67
7
2
3
326
308
370
283
Total trade and other receivables 
1,425
1,202
371
284
Comprising
Financial assets (Note 41) 
1,360
1,145
371
284
Non-financial assets – prepayments 
65
57
–
–
1,425
1,202
371
284
+ Includes insurance recoveries recognised in relation to rectification works on a development in London (Note 10.2.2) and in relation 
to a claim received for a legacy project completed in 2012 in Texas (Note 10.2.4).
Based on prior experience, an assessment of the current economic environment and a review of 
the financial circumstances of individual customers, the Directors believe no further credit risk 
provision is required in respect of the financial assets above.
The Directors consider that the carrying values of current and non-current trade and other receivables 
approximate their fair values. 
Amounts due from subsidiaries of the Company are repayable on demand and have been adjusted 
for expected credit losses, which are not material. 
Maturity profile of impaired trade receivables and trade receivables past due but not impaired
Impaired 
Past due but not impaired
Group 
2024 
£m
Group 
2023 
£m
Group 
2024 
£m
Group 
2023 
£m
Up to three months 
–
4
36
26
Three to six months 
–
–
7
7
Six to nine months 
–
1
4
6
Nine to 12 months 
–
1
1
5
More than 12 months 
2
2
28
10
2
8
76
54
At 31 December 2024, trade receivables of £76m (2023: £54m) were past due but not impaired. 
These relate to a number of individual customers where there is no reason to believe that the 
receivable is not recoverable.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

230
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
26 Trade and other payables
Group 
2024 
£m
Group 
2023 
£m
Company 
2024 
£m
Company 
2023 
£m
Current
Trade and other payables
625
602
–
–
Accruals
813
788
3
3
Contract retentions payable
230
213
–
–
VAT, payroll taxes and social security
108
131
–
–
Due to joint ventures and associates
2
–
–
–
Due to subsidiaries 
–
–
655
588
1,778
1,734
658
591
Non-current
Accruals
10
9
–
–
Contract retentions payable
75
104
–
–
Due to joint ventures and associates
3
9
–
3
Borrowings from subsidiaries
–
–
274
271
88
122
274
274
Total trade and other payables
1,866
1,856
932
865
Comprising
Financial liabilities (Note 41)
1,734
1,708
932
865
Non-financial liabilities:
 
– accruals not at amortised cost
24
17
–
–
 
– VAT, payroll taxes and social security
108
131
–
–
1,866
1,856
932
865
Borrowings from subsidiaries include a loan to the Company from Balfour Beatty Overseas Investments Limited. The loan matures in December 2033 and bears interest at 1.35% plus SONIA. Amounts due to 
the Company’s subsidiaries are repayable on demand. 
Maturity profile of the Group’s non-current financial liabilities at 31 December
2024
2023
Accruals 
£m
Contract 
retentions 
payable
£m
Due to joint 
ventures and 
associates
£m
Total 
£m
Accruals 
£m
Contract 
retentions 
payable
£m
Due to joint 
ventures and 
associates
£m
Total 
£m
Due within one to two years 
5
39
1
45
5
81
3
89
Due within two to five years 
5
36
1
42
4
23
1
28
Due after more than five years 
–
–
1
1
–
–
5
5
10
75
3
88
9
104
9
122
The Directors consider that the carrying values of current and non-current trade and other payables and contract retentions payable approximate their fair values. The fair value of non-current trade and other 
payables and contract retentions payable has been determined by discounting future cash flows using yield curves and exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

231
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
27 Provisions
Contract
provisions 
£m
Employee
provisions 
£m
Other
provisions 
£m
Total 
£m
At 1 January 2023
335
33
33
401
Currency translation differences
(3)
–
(1)
(4)
Charged/(credited) to the income statement:
 
– additional provisions 
170
9
4
183
 
– unused amounts reversed 
(59)
(2)
–
(61)
Utilised during the year
(91)
(7)
(4)
(102)
At 31 December 2023
352
33
32
417
Currency translation differences
1
–
–
1
Reclassified to accruals
1
–
1
2
Transfers
(10)
–
10
–
Charged/(credited) to the income statement:
 
– additional provisions 
365
9
13
387
 
– unused amounts reversed 
(54)
(3)
(7)
(64)
Utilised during the year
(113)
(7)
(3)
(123)
Transfer movement in negative investment in joint venture to provisions (Note 20.1)
–
–
(3)
(3)
At 31 December 2024
542
32
43
617
2024
2023
Contract
provisions
£m
Employee 
provisions 
£m
Other 
provisions 
£m
 Total 
£m
Contract 
provisions
£m
Employee
provisions
£m
Other 
provisions 
£m
Total 
£m
Due within one year 
214
7
18
239
190
8
18
216
Due within one to two years 
196
6
5
207
97
4
7
108
Due within two to five years 
105
6
12
123
49
10
4
63
Due after more than five years 
27
13
8
48
16
11
3
30
542
32
43
617
352
33
32
417
Contract provisions include construction insurance liabilities, principally in the Group’s self-insurance arrangements, which cover claims relating to contractors all risk, public liability and professional indemnity. 
Contract provisions also include loss provisions, and defect and warranty provisions on contracts, primarily construction contracts, that have reached practical completion. There is a latent defect period for 
which the provision is held, but where there are known identified issues then the provision may be required to cover rectification work over a more extended period. Contract provisions also include provisions 
made for Building Safety Act claims received (refer to Note 10.2.3) and the provision in relation to the claim relating to a legacy project completed in 2012 in Texas (refer to Note 10.2.4). These provisions are also 
subject to significant estimation uncertainties with regards to quantum and timing (refer to Note 2.28(d)). 
Employee provisions are principally liabilities relating to employers’ liability insurance retained in the Group’s self-insurance arrangements.
Other provisions principally comprise: motor and other insurance liabilities in the Group’s self-insurance arrangements; legal claims and costs, where provision is made for the Directors’ best estimate of known 
legal claims, investigations and legal actions in progress; and environmental provisions.
The Group takes actuarial advice when establishing the level of provisions in the Group’s self-insurance arrangements and certain other categories of provision. Insurance-related provisions within these 
categories were £71m (2023: £70m) as follows: Contract provisions £50m (2023: £49m); Employee provisions £15m (2023: £16m); and Other, mainly motor, provisions £6m (2023: £5m).
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

232
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
28 Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings
28.1 Group
2024
2023
Current 
£m
Non-current 
£m
Total 
£m
Current 
£m
Non-current
£m
Total 
£m
Unsecured borrowings at amortised cost
 
– bank overdrafts 
(185)
–
(185)
(104)
–
(104)
 
– US private placement (Note 28.2) 
–
(165)
(165)
–
(162)
(162)
(185)
(165)
(350)
(104)
(162)
(266)
Cash and deposits at amortised cost 
1,084
–
1,084
890
–
890
Term deposits at amortised cost 
209
–
209
218
–
218
Cash and cash equivalents (excluding infrastructure concessions) 
1,293
–
1,293
1,108
–
1,108
1,108
(165)
943
1,004
(162)
842
Non-recourse infrastructure concessions project finance loans at amortised cost with final maturity between 2025 and 2072
(11)
(589)
(600)
(9)
(561)
(570)
Infrastructure concessions cash and cash equivalents 
265
–
265
306
–
306
254
(589)
(335)
297
(561)
(264)
Net cash/(borrowings) 
1,362
(754)
608
1,301
(723)
578
The Company, together with certain of its UK and US subsidiaries, operates notional pooling facilities with main relationship UK and US clearing banks where overdraft balances are offset with cash balances and 
interest is calculated on a net basis. During the year ended 31 December 2024, the Group maintained a net cash position on these pooling facilities, so there was no interest payable to the bank in respect of 
these bank overdrafts. Overdraft balances and cash held at these banks have been reported gross in the Group balance sheet at 31 December 2024 as there was no legal right of offset and no intention to settle 
the bank overdrafts at that date. 
The loans relating to project finance arise under non-recourse facilities taken out by project-specific subsidiary companies. The loans of each company are secured by a combination of fixed and floating charges 
over that company’s interests in its project’s assets and revenues and the shares in the company held by its immediate parent company. 
Term deposits are held on a short-term basis and are readily accessible to the Group at any time with insignificant break costs. 
Included in cash and cash equivalents is restricted cash of £16m (2023: £12m) held by the Group’s self-insurance company, Delphian Insurance Company Ltd, which is subject to Isle of Man insurance 
solvency regulations. 
Cash and cash equivalents also include: £158m (2023: £77m) within construction project bank accounts which is used for project-specific expenditure; £382m (2023: £369m) in relation to the Group’s share 
of cash held by joint operations which is used for expenditure within the joint operation projects; and £265m (2023: £306m) relating to maintenance and other reserve accounts in Infrastructure Investments 
subsidiaries, of which £234m (2023: £277m) is reserved for the construction of University of Sussex’s West Slope student accommodation project. 
Maturity profile of the Group’s borrowings at 31 December
2024
2023
Non-recourse
project
 finance 
£m
Other 
borrowings 
£m
Total 
£m
Non-recourse
project
 finance
£m
Other
borrowings
£m
Total 
£m
Due on demand or within one year 
(11)
(185)
(196)
(9)
(104)
(113)
Due within one to two years 
(56)
–
(56)
(10)
(39)
(49)
Due within two to five years 
(166)
(91)
(257)
(181)
(27)
(208)
Due after more than five years 
(367)
(74)
(441)
(370)
(96)
(466)
(600)
(350)
(950)
(570)
(266)
(836)
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

233
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
28 Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings continued 
28.1 Group continued
The carrying values of the Group’s borrowings are equal to the fair values at the reporting date. 
The fair values are determined by discounting future cash flows using yield curves and exchange 
rates prevailing at the reporting date.
Undrawn Group committed borrowing facilities at 31 December in respect of which all 
conditions precedent were satisfied
2024
2023
Non-recourse 
project 
finance 
£m
Other 
borrowings 
£m
Total 
£m
Non-recourse 
project 
finance 
£m
Other 
borrowings 
£m
Total 
£m
Expiring in one year 
or less
–
–
–
–
30
30
Expiring in more than 
one year but not 
more than two years
–
–
–
–
–
–
Expiring in more than 
two years
–
480
480
–
475
475
–
480
480
–
505
505
In June 2024, the Group extended its core Revolving Credit Facility (RCF) by one year, to June 2028, 
with the support of the lending bank group. The facility was reduced from £475m to £450m in the 
extension process. The RCF remains a Sustainability Linked Loan (SLL) and, subsequent to the 
extension in July 2024, revised SLL metrics and targets were agreed with the lending bank group. 
The Group continues to be incentivised to deliver annual measurable performance improvement in 
three key areas: carbon emissions, social value generation and an independent Environment, Social 
and Governance (ESG) rating score.
The Group retains an additional £30m bilateral committed facility that has materially the same terms 
and conditions as the RCF. The facility is also a SLL, including metrics that mirror the RCF. In the 
second half of the year, the Group triggered its extension option in respect of the bilateral facility, 
to extend the maturity to December 2027. 
The RCF and the £30m bilateral committed facility were both undrawn at 31 December 2024.
28.2 US private placement
In June 2022, the Group raised US$158m (£130m) of debt in the form of new US private placement 
(USPP) notes on terms and conditions materially the same as the existing USPP notes. This debt 
comprises US$35m of notes maturing in June 2027 at a fixed coupon of 6.31%, US$80m of notes 
maturing in June 2029 at a fixed coupon of 6.39% and US$43m of notes maturing in June 2032 at 
a fixed coupon of 6.45%. 
In May 2024, the Group completed the early refinancing of US$50m of USPP notes that were set to 
mature in March 2025 and were the final notes from the 2013 tranche of notes. The Group raised 
US$50m of new USPP notes, on terms and conditions that mirror existing debt facilities, and used this 
new funding to complete the early repayment of its existing US$50m USPP notes which were due to 
expire in March 2025. The new debt is comprised of US$25m maturing in May 2031 at a fixed coupon 
of 6.71%, and US$25m maturing in May 2036 at a fixed coupon of 6.96%. The refinancing exercise 
has extended the debt maturity profile of the Group until 2036, with the next debt maturity now in 
June 2027 for US$35m.
At 31 December 2024, the US$208m USPP notes have an average coupon of 6.5% per annum 
and a remaining average maturity of 5.8 years.
28.3 Company
2024
2023
Current 
£m
Non-current 
£m
Total 
£m
Current 
£m
Non-current 
£m
Total 
£m
Cash 
218
–
218
150
–
150
Term deposits
200
–
200
218
–
218
Bank overdrafts 
(171)
–
(171)
(58)
–
(58)
US private placement 
(Note 28.2) 
–
(165)
(165)
–
(162)
(162)
Net cash/
(borrowings) 
247
(165)
82
310
(162)
148
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

234
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
29 Lease liabilities 
29.1 Movements
Land and
buildings
£m
Plant and
equipment
£m
Motor 
vehicles 
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2023
58
27
47
132
Currency translation differences 
(2)
–
–
(2)
Additions
11
17
47
75
Lease modification
–
–
(1)
(1)
Payments made for lease liabilities+
(20)
(13)
(30)
(63)
Disposals
(1)
(1)
(2)
(4)
Interest on lease liabilities 
3
1
2
6
At 31 December 2023
49
31
63
143
Additions 
15
19
47
81
Payments made for lease liabilities+
(17)
(14)
(35)
(66)
Transfers
–
5
(5)
–
Disposals
–
(1)
(2)
(3)
Interest on lease liabilities 
2
2
3
7
At 31 December 2024
49
42
71
162
+ Payments made for lease liabilities include an interest element of £7m (2023: £6m).
29.2 Maturity analysis – contractual undiscounted cash flows
2024
2023
Land and
buildings
£m
Plant and
equipment
£m
Motor 
vehicles 
£m
Total
£m
Land and
buildings
£m
Plant and
equipment
£m
Motor 
vehicles 
£m
Total
£m
Due within one year
(15)
(13)
(29)
(57)
13
10
27
50
Due within one to two years
(11)
(10)
(24)
(45)
10
7
19
36
Due within two to five years
(19)
(19)
(21)
(59)
17
14
20
51
Due after more than five years
(12)
(3)
–
(15)
13
4
–
17
Total undiscounted cash flows 
(57)
(45)
(74)
(176)
53
35
66
154
29.3 Amounts recognised in the income statement 
2024
£m
2023
£m
Interest on lease liabilities
7
6
Expenses relating to short-term leases 
125
123
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

235
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
30 Deferred tax
30.1 Group
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax 
authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Net deferred tax position at 31 December
Group
 2024 
£m
Group 
2023 
£m
Deferred tax assets
200
188
Deferred tax liabilities
(153)
(160)
47
28
Movement for the year in the net deferred tax position
Group 
£m
At 1 January 2023
24
Currency translation differences
9
Charged to income statement
(48)
Credited to other comprehensive income
48
Charged to equity
(2)
Research and development tax credits
(3)
At 31 December 2023
28
Currency translation differences
(1)
Charged to income statement
(8)
Credited to other comprehensive income
26
Credited to equity
2
At 31 December 2024
47
The table below shows the deferred tax assets and liabilities before being offset where they relate to 
income taxes levied by the same tax authority.
Net deferred tax position
Depreciation
in excess 
of capital
allowances
£m
Retirement
benefits
£m
Unrelieved
trading
losses
£m
Share-based
payments
£m
Provisions
£m
Fair value
adjustments
£m
Other GAAP
differences
£m
Research and
development
credits
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2023
26
(60)
199
7
51
(104)
(98)
3
24
Currency translation differences
1
–
–
–
(3)
6
5
–
9
(Charged)/credited to income statement
(24)
(11)
6
1
(24)
–
4
–
(48)
Credited/(charged) to other comprehensive income 
–
49
–
–
–
(1)
–
–
48
Charged to equity 
–
–
–
(2)
–
–
–
–
(2)
Research and development tax credits
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
(3)
(3)
At 31 December 2023
3
(22)
205
6
24
(99)
(89)
–
28
Currency translation differences
–
–
–
–
–
(1)
–
–
(1)
(Charged)/credited to income statement
(4)
(8)
(12)
(1)
10
–
7
–
(8)
Credited to other comprehensive income 
–
26
–
–
–
–
–
–
26
Credited to equity 
–
–
–
2
–
–
–
–
2
At 31 December 2024
(1)
(4)
193
7
34
(100)
(82)
–
47
As a result of the adoption of the amendment to IAS 12 in relation to Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a Single Transaction, the Group has provided further disclosure below to show the 
assets and liabilities to which the depreciation in excess of capital allowances relate. 
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

236
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
30 Deferred tax continued
30.1 Group continued
Net deferred tax position continued
Property, 
plant and
 equipment 
£m
Right-of-use
 assets 
£m
Lease liabilities 
£m
Depreciation
in excess 
of capital
allowances
£m
At 1 January 2023
25
(8)
9
26
Currency translation differences
1
–
–
1
(Charged)/credited to income statement
(25)
3
(2)
(24)
At 31 December 2023
1
(5)
7
3
(Charged)/credited to income statement
(4)
2
(2)
(4)
At 31 December 2024
(3)
(3)
5
(1)
At the balance sheet date, the Group had unused trading tax losses of £1,136m (2023: £1,207m) available for offset against future profits, of which £807m (2023: £828m) arose in the UK, £5m (2023: £37m) 
in the US and £324m (2023: £342m) in other jurisdictions. 
A deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of £767m (2023: £821m) of such losses, of which £763m (2023: £786m) have been recognised in the UK and £4m (2023: £35m) in the US. In considering 
the amount of deferred tax asset to be recognised for UK and US tax losses, the potential use of those losses based on the latest current and forecast business performance was assessed, and losses were 
recognised where it is probable that they will be utilised. No deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of the losses of £369m (2023: £386m) where it is considered that it is not probable that they will 
be utilised due to restrictions in use and unpredictability of future profitability. 
Of the Group’s tax losses, £6m (2023: £7m) will expire within 20 years after the year in which they arose, using losses incurred in earlier years before those incurred in later years. Other losses will be carried 
forward indefinitely. 
In addition to the losses referred to above, at 31 December 2024 the Group had UK capital losses available to carry forward of £1.4bn (2023: £1.4bn). No deferred tax assets have been recognised in respect 
of these losses as there are no capital profits forecast against which these losses can be utilised.
Deferred tax liabilities on fair value adjustments of £100m (2023: £99m) relate to temporary differences arising on goodwill and intangibles. Deferred tax liabilities on other GAAP differences of £82m 
(2023: £89m) relate to temporary differences on joint ventures.
At the reporting date, undistributed reserves of non-UK subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised were £637m (2023: £607m) in respect of subsidiaries and 
£41m (2023: £42m) in respect of joint ventures and associates. No liability has been recognised in respect of these differences because either no temporary difference arises or the timing of any distribution is 
under the Group’s control and no distribution which gives rise to taxation is contemplated.
Deferred tax asset of £5m (2023: £12m) on other temporary differences has not been recognised.
30.2 Company
The table below shows the deferred tax assets and liabilities before being offset where they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority.
Unrelieved
trading
losses
£m
Share-based 
payments
£m
Total 
deferred 
tax assets
£m
At 1 January 2023
1
1
2
Credited to income statement 
3
–
3
At 31 December 2023
4
1
5
Credited to income statement 
3
–
3
At 31 December 2024
7
1
8
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

237
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
31 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities
31.1 Introduction
The Group, through trustees, operates a number of defined contribution and defined benefit pension schemes.
Defined contribution schemes are those where the Group’s obligation is limited to the amount that 
it contributes to the scheme and the scheme members bear the investment and actuarial risks.
Defined benefit schemes are schemes other than defined contribution schemes where the Group’s 
obligation is to provide specified benefits on retirement.
IAS 19 Employee Benefits (IAS 19) prescribes the accounting for defined benefit schemes in the 
Group’s financial statements. Obligations are calculated using the projected unit credit method and 
discounted to a net present value using the market yield on high-quality corporate bonds. The pension 
expense relating to current service cost is charged to contracts or overheads based on the function of 
scheme members and is included in cost of sales and net operating expenses. The net finance income 
arising from the expected interest income on plan assets and interest cost on scheme obligations is 
included in investment income. Actuarial gains and losses are reported in the statement of 
comprehensive income. The IAS 19 accounting valuations are set out in Note 31.2.
A different calculation is used for the formal triennial funding valuations undertaken by the scheme 
trustees to determine the future Company contribution level necessary so that over time the scheme 
assets will meet the scheme obligations. The principal difference between the two methods is that 
under the funding basis the obligations are discounted using a rate of return reflecting the composition 
of the assets in the scheme, rather than the rate of return on high-quality corporate bonds as required 
by IAS 19 for the financial statements. Details of the latest formal triennial funding valuations are set 
out in Note 31.3.
The assets of the schemes do not include any direct holdings of the Group’s financial instruments, 
nor any property occupied by, or other assets of, the Group.
Principal schemes
The Group’s principal schemes are the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund (BBPF), which includes defined 
contribution and defined benefit sections, and the Balfour Beatty Shared Cost Section of the Railways 
Pension Scheme (RPS). The defined benefit sections of both schemes are funded and closed to new 
members with the exception of employees where employment has transferred to the Group under 
certain agreed arrangements. Pension benefits for defined benefit schemes are based on employees’ 
pensionable service and their pensionable salary.
The schemes operate under trust law and are managed and administered by trustees on behalf of the 
members in accordance with the terms of the trust deed and rules and relevant legislation. Defined 
benefit contributions are determined in consultation with the trustees, after taking actuarial advice. 
The trustees are responsible for establishing the investment strategy and ensuring that there are 
sufficient assets to meet the cost of current and future benefits.
These schemes expose the Group to investment and actuarial risks where additional contributions may 
be required if assets are not sufficient to pay future pension benefits:
 
@ investment risk: the investment portfolio is subject to a range of risks typical of the investments 
held, for example, credit risk on corporate bond holdings; and
 
@ actuarial risk: the ultimate cost of providing pension benefits is affected by inflation rates and 
members’ life expectancy. The net present value of the obligations is affected by the market yield 
on high-quality corporate bonds used to discount the obligations.
Changes in the principal actuarial assumptions based on market data, such as inflation and the discount 
rate, and experience, such as life expectancy, expose the Group to fluctuations in the net IAS 19 
liability and the net finance cost.
Balfour Beatty Pension Fund
The investment strategy of the BBPF is to hold assets of appropriate liquidity and marketability to 
generate income and capital growth. The BBPF invests partly in a diversified range of assets including 
corporate bonds, equities and hedge funds in anticipation that, over the longer term, they will grow in 
value faster than the scheme’s obligations. The BBPF has been undertaking a phased withdrawal from 
equities and hedge funds. The only residual equities held are a very small amount of emerging market 
equities held via pooled funds. The remaining BBPF assets are principally fixed and index-linked bonds 
and derivatives, providing protection against movements in inflation and interest rates and hence 
enhancing the resilience of the funding level of the scheme. The performance of the assets is 
measured against market indices.
The BBPF’s defined benefit section is exposed to a number of liability related risks, namely changes 
in gilt yields, inflation and the longevity of the scheme’s members.
With respect to interest rate and inflation risks, the trustee seeks to mitigate the majority of these risks 
through its liability hedging portfolio. This is a segregated portfolio of hedging assets which includes 
physical gilts, gilt repurchase agreements and interest rate and inflation swaps. The current objective of 
the portfolio is to hedge 100% of the impact that changes in interest rates and inflation can have on the 
funding position.
The BBPF’s Fiduciary Manager and Investment Committee closely monitor the collateral being held 
within the liability hedging portfolio to ensure that the scheme holds sufficient collateral to support 
its liability hedging programme.
With respect to longevity risk the BBPF has a longevity swap contract as part of the investment 
portfolio which will provide income in the event that pensions are paid out for longer. The fair value 
of the longevity swap has been included as part of the fair value of plan assets.
The Group operates a Scottish Limited Partnership (SLP) structure which holds the Group’s 40% 
interest in the Birmingham Hospital PFI investment and the Group’s 15% share of the Connect Plus 
(M25) asset. The BBPF is a partner in the SLP and is entitled to a share of the income of the SLP. 
In accordance with IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements, the SLP is deemed to be controlled 
by the Group, which retains the ability to substitute the investment in the Birmingham Hospital PFI 
investment and the Connect Plus (M25) asset for other investments from time to time. 
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

238
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
31 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued
31.1 Introduction continued
Balfour Beatty Pension Fund continued
Under IAS 19, the investment held by the BBPF in the SLP does not constitute a plan asset and therefore 
the pension surplus presented in these financial statements does not reflect the BBPF’s interest in the 
SLP. Distributions from the SLP to the BBPF will be reflected in the Group’s financial statements as 
pension contributions on a cash basis. In 2024, the BBPF received distributions of £2m from the SLP 
(2023: £2m). 
Balfour Beatty and the trustees of the BBPF have reconfirmed their commitment to a journey plan 
approach to managing the BBPF with the aim of reaching self-sufficiency by 2027. The Company and 
trustees have agreed the 31 March 2022 formal valuation and as a result Balfour Beatty made deficit 
contributions to the BBPF of £22m in 2024 (2023: £19m) and has agreed to pay deficit contributions to 
the BBPF of £6m in 2025. The next formal triennial funding valuation is due with effect from 31 March 2025.
This agreement constitutes a minimum funding requirement (MFR) under IFRIC 14 IAS 19: The Limit 
on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction. The Group has not 
recognised any liabilities in relation to this MFR as any surplus of deficit contributions to the BBPF 
would be recoverable by way of a refund and the Group has the unconditional right to the surplus and 
controls the run-off of the benefit obligations once all other obligations of the BBPF have been settled.
Railways Pension Scheme
The RPS is a shared cost scheme. The legal responsibility of the Group in the RPS is approximately 60% 
of the scheme’s assets and liabilities based on the relevant provisions of the trust deed and rules and 
trustee guidelines regarding future surplus apportionments and deficit financing.
The assumed cost of providing future service benefits is split between the Group and the members 
in the ratio 60:40. 
Because of a declining population of active members, it has become less likely that the Group’s costs 
of meeting any deficits would be capped in line with its strict legal obligation of 60% as members 
might only be able to afford to fund a small proportion of the scheme deficit. It has therefore been 
assumed that the Group will be responsible for 100% of any deficit and the balance sheet assets 
and obligations disclosed, therefore, are equal to 100% of the total scheme assets and obligations. 
The RPS invests in a range of pooled investment funds intended to generate a combination of capital 
growth and income and, as determined by the trustee, taking account of the characteristics of the 
obligations and the trustee’s attitude to risk. The majority of the RPS’s assets that are intended to 
generate additional returns, over the rate at which the obligations are expected to grow, are invested 
in a single pooled growth fund. This fund is invested in a wide range of asset classes and the fund 
manager Railpen has the discretion to vary the asset allocation to reflect its views on the relative 
attractiveness of different asset classes at any time. The remaining assets in the RPS are principally 
fixed and index-linked bonds.
The RPS is exposed to a number of liability related risks, namely changes in gilt yields, inflation and the 
longevity of the scheme’s members. With respect to interest rate and inflation risks, the strategic 
asset allocation was reviewed and amended in 2023 to mitigate these risks by increasing the allocation 
to fixed and index-linked bond pooled funds. The current objective of the portfolio is to hedge around 
100% of the impact that changes in interest rates and inflation can have on the funding position.
The formal triennial funding valuation of the RPS as at 31 December 2022 was completed in March 
2024, with the Company agreeing to continue to make fixed deficit contributions of £6m per annum 
until February 2025. This agreement constitutes a MFR under IFRIC 14 IAS 19: The Limit on a Defined 
Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction. The Company has not recognised 
any liabilities in relation to this MFR as any surplus of deficit contributions to the RPS would be recoverable 
by way of a refund and the Group has the unconditional right to the surplus and controls the run-off 
of the benefit obligations once all other obligations of the RPS have been settled. The next formal 
triennial funding valuation is due with effect from 31 December 2025.
Other schemes
Other schemes comprise unfunded post-retirement benefit obligations in Europe, the majority of which 
are closed to new entrants, and deferred compensation schemes in North America, where an element 
of employees’ compensation is deferred and invested in investments in mutual funds (as disclosed in 
Note 21.1) in a trust, the assets of which are for the ultimate benefit of the employees but are available 
to the Group’s creditors in the event of insolvency.
The Group also participates in The Plumbing & Mechanical Services Industry Pension Scheme 
(Plumbers Scheme), which is an industry-wide non-associated multi-employer defined benefit scheme. 
As the Plumbers Scheme does not segregate assets and liabilities between the different participating 
employers, the Group’s only obligation to the Plumbers Scheme is to pay the contributions requested 
by the scheme trustees as they fall due. In accordance with IAS 19, this obligation has been accounted 
for on a defined contribution basis and any employer contributions paid are charged to the income 
statement. To confirm, there have been no such contributions over 2024.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

239
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
31 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued
31.1 Introduction continued
Membership of the principal schemes
Balfour Beatty Pension Fund 2024
Railways Pension Scheme 2024
Balfour Beatty Pension Fund 2023
Railways Pension Scheme 2023
Number
of
members
Defined
benefit
obligations
£m
Average
duration 
Years
Number
of
members
Defined
benefit
obligations
£m
Average
duration 
Years
Number
of
members
Defined
benefit
obligations
£m
Average
duration
Years
Number
of
members
Defined
benefit
obligations
£m
Average
duration
Years
Defined benefit
 
– active members
1
1
11
61
25
15
1
1
12
70
26
17
 
– deferred pensioners
8,223
912
16
896
80
15
8,770
1,007
18
972
90
16
 
– 
pensioners, widow(er)s 
and dependants
16,656
1,335
8
1,948
182
10
16,764
1,493
9
1,904
204
10
Defined contribution
16,619
–
–
–
–
–
15,512
–
–
–
–
–
Total
41,499
2,248
11
2,905
287
12
41,047
2,501
12
2,946
320
12
31.2 IAS 19 accounting valuations
Principal actuarial assumptions for the IAS 19 accounting valuations of the Group’s principal schemes
2024
2023
Balfour Beatty
Pension
Fund
%
Railways
Pension
Scheme
%
Balfour Beatty
Pension
Fund
%
Railways
Pension
Scheme
%
Discount rate
5.55
5.55
4.65
4.65
Inflation rate – RPI
3.25
3.25
3.15
3.15
– CPI
2.75
2.90
2.60
2.75
Future increases in pensionable salary
2.75
2.90
2.60
2.75
Rate of increase in pensions in payment (or such other rate as is guaranteed)
3.05
2.95
2.95
2.85
The BBPF actuary undertakes regular mortality investigations as part of the formal triennial valuation (the last such valuation being in 31 March 2022) based on the experience exhibited by pensioners of the 
BBPF and due to the size of the membership of the BBPF is able to make comparisons of this experience with the mortality rates set out in the various published mortality tables. The actuary is also able to 
monitor changes in the exhibited mortality over time. This research is taken into account in the BBPF’s mortality assumptions. The mortality assumptions as at 31 December 2024 are consistent with those 
adopted at the previous year end, which reflect the experience of BBPF pensioners for the period to 30 September 2021, with the exception that the future improvements assumptions have been updated to 
reflect the most recent model available, with the Group setting future improvements in line with the Continuous Mortality Investigation (CMI) 2023 core projections model.
Similarly, the RPS actuary also undertakes regular mortality investigations as part of the formal triennial valuation based on the experience exhibited by pensioners of the RPS, with the last such analysis being 
completed as part of the 31 December 2022 valuation, which was used in updating the mortality assumption at the previous year end. Similar to the BBPF, the mortality assumptions as at 31 December 2024 
are consistent with whose adopted at the previous year end, with the exception that the future improvements assumptions has been updated to reflect the most recent model available.
Following the completion of the BBPF’s 31 March 2022 triennial valuation, the future improvements assumption adopted for the BBPF and RPS has also been updated for 2024 to reflect the most recent model 
available, with the Group setting future improvements in line with the Continuous Mortality Investigation (CMI) 2023 core projections model.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

240
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
31 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued
31.2 IAS 19 accounting valuations continued
BBPF life expectancies
2024
Average life expectancy 
at 65 years of age
2023 
Average life expectancy 
at 65 years of age
Male
Female
Male
Female
Members in receipt of a pension
21.3
23.0
21.3
23.0
Members not yet in receipt of a pension (current age 50)
22.2
23.9
22.2
23.9
RPS life expectancies
RPS life expectancies
2024
Average life expectancy 
at 65 years of age
2023
Average life expectancy 
at 65 years of age
Male
Female
Male
Female
Members in receipt of a pension
20.8
22.7
20.8
22.7
Members not yet in receipt of a pension (current age 50)
21.6
23.6
21.6
23.6
Amounts recognised in the income statement
The BBPF defined contribution employer contributions paid and charged to the income statement have been separately identified in the table below and the defined contribution section assets and liabilities 
amounting to £803m (2023: £710m) have been excluded from the tables on pages 241 to 244. Defined contribution charges for other schemes include contributions to multi-employer pension schemes.
2024
2023
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
£m
Other
schemes
£m
Total
£m
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
£m
Other
schemes
£m
Total
£m
Group 
Current service cost
(1)
(1)
(1)
(3)
(2)
(1)
(1)
(4)
Defined contribution charge
(50)
–
(6)
(56)
(48)
–
(6)
(54)
Included in employee costs (Note 7)
(51)
(1)
(7)
(59)
(50)
(1)
(7)
(58)
Interest income
118
15
–
133
130
16
–
146
Interest cost
(113)
(15)
(1)
(129)
(118)
(14)
(2)
(134)
Net finance income/(cost) (Note 8)
5
–
(1)
4
12
2
(2)
12
Total (charged)/credited to income statement 
(46)
(1)
(8)
(55)
(38)
1
(9)
(46)
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

241
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
31 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued
31.2 IAS 19 accounting valuations continued
Amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income
2024
2023
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
£m
Other
schemes
£m
Total
£m
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
£m
Other
schemes
£m
Total
£m
Actuarial movements on pension scheme obligations
207
29
(1)
235
(70)
(21)
–
(91)
Actuarial movements on pension scheme assets
(292)
(45)
–
(337)
(85)
(21)
–
(106)
Total actuarial movements recognised in the statement of comprehensive income (Note 33.1)
(85)
(16)
(1)
(102)
(155)
(42)
–
(197)
Cumulative actuarial movements recognised in the statement of comprehensive income
(421)
(34)
(23)
(478)
(336)
(18)
(22)
(376)
The actual return on plan assets was a loss of £204m (2023: £40m gain).
Amounts recognised in the balance sheet
2024
2023
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
£m
Other
schemes 
†
£m
Total
£m
Balfour
Beatty
Pension
Fund
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
£m
Other
schemes 
†
£m
Total
£m
Present value of obligations
(2,248)
(287)
(34)
(2,569)
(2,501)
(320)
(35)
(2,856)
Fair value of plan assets
2,291
280
–
2,571
2,602
323
–
2,925
Asset/(liabilities) in the balance sheet
43
(7)
(34)
2
101
3
(35)
69
† 
Investments in mutual funds of £20m (2023: £19m) are held to satisfy the Group’s deferred compensation obligations (Note 21.1).
The defined benefit obligations comprise £34m (2023: £35m) arising from wholly unfunded plans and £2,535m (2023: £2,821m) arising from plans that are wholly or partly funded.
The BBPF saw a significant increase in corporate bond yields over 2024, which led to a corresponding increase in the IAS 19 discount rate. Whilst this has been offset in part by a small increase in future 
inflationary expectations, this has led to an overall decrease in the present value of obligations from 31 December 2023 to 31 December 2024. The BBPF has also seen a similar reduction of the scheme’s 
assets (excluding the value of the longevity hedge) due to changes in market conditions over the year, which is to be expected given the level of hedging in place. However, as the BBPF hedges against a 
different funding basis, it is expected that there may be some differences in the movement of the assets and liabilities during significant market movements, with assets decreasing by a greater amount than 
the liabilities due to market conditions in this case.
In June 2023, the High Court handed down a decision in the case of Virgin Media Limited v NTL Pension Trustees II Limited and others relating to the validity of certain historical pension changes due to the lack 
of actuarial confirmation required by law. In July 2024, the Court of Appeal dismissed the appeal brought by Virgin Media Ltd against aspects of the June 2023 decision. This case may have implications for other 
UK defined benefit plans. The Company and pension trustees are considering the implications of the case for the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund and the Balfour Beatty section of the Railways Pension Scheme. 
Legal advice provided confirms that all relevant confirmations are in place for the Balfour Beatty section of the Railways Pension Scheme. For the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund, legal advice provided confirms 
the vast majority of relevant confirmations are in place. Additional work is needed to investigate more historic pension changes where it is not known at this stage whether the relevant confirmations had been 
provided at the time and to investigate the position in respect of previous merges or bulk transfers into the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund. The defined benefit obligations for both schemes have been calculated 
on the basis of the pension benefits currently being administered, and at this stage we do not consider it necessary to make any adjustments as a result of the Virgin Media case. The Group will continue to 
monitor this position.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

242
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
31 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued
31.2 IAS 19 accounting valuations continued
Movement in the present value of obligations
2024
2023
Balfour Beatty
Pension
Fund 
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
£m
Other
schemes
£m
Total
£m
Balfour Beatty
 Pension 
Fund 
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
£m
Other
schemes
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January
(2,501)
(320)
(35)
(2,856)
(2,464)
(300)
(39)
(2,803)
Currency translation differences
–
–
1
1
–
–
2
2
Current service cost 
(1)
(1)
(1)
(3)
(2)
(1)
(1)
(4)
Interest cost 
(113)
(15)
(1)
(129)
(118)
(14)
(2)
(134)
Actuarial movements from reassessing the difference between RPI and CPI
(2)
–
–
(2)
(2)
(2)
–
(4)
Actuarial movements from changes in demographic assumptions
3
1
–
4
17
(1)
–
16
Other financial actuarial movements
214
28
(1)
241
(85)
(16)
–
(101)
Experience losses
(8)
–
–
(8)
–
(2)
–
(2)
Total actuarial movements
207
29
(1)
235
(70)
(21)
–
(91)
Benefits paid
160
20
3
183
153
16
5
174
At 31 December
(2,248)
(287)
(34)
(2,569)
(2,501)
(320)
(35)
(2,856)
Movement in the fair value of plan assets
2024
2023
Balfour Beatty 
Pension 
Fund 
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
£m
Total
2024
£m
Balfour Beatty 
Pension 
Fund 
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January
2,602
323
2,925
2,689
337
3,026
Interest income 
118
15
133
130
16
146
Actuarial movements
(292)
(45)
(337)
(85)
(21)
(106)
Contributions from employer
 
– regular funding
1
1
2
2
1
3
 
– ongoing deficit funding
22
6
28
19
6
25
Benefits paid
(160)
(20)
(180)
(153)
(16)
(169)
At 31 December
2,291
280
2,571
2,602
323
2,925
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

243
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
31 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued
31.2 IAS 19 accounting valuations continued
Fair value of the assets held by the schemes at 31 December
2024
2023
Balfour Beatty
Pension Fund
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme 
†
£m
Total 
£m
Balfour Beatty
Pension Fund
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme 
†
£m
Total 
£m
Return-seeking
285
105
390
276
110
386
 
– Developed nation equities#
95
–
95
92
–
92
 
– Hedge funds#
101
–
101
168
–
168
 
– Return-seeking growth pooled funds$
–
105
105
–
110
110
 
– Other return-seeking assets#@
89
–
89
16
–
16
Liability-matching bond-type assets
1,740
172
1,912
1,822
212
2,034
 
– Corporate bonds
954
–
954
776
–
776
 
– Fixed interest gilts^
844
–
844
496
–
496
 
– Index-linked gilts^
6
113
119
554
137
691
 
– Currency hedging
(18)
–
(18)
15
–
15
 
– Liability-matching pooled funds~
–
59
59
–
75
75
 
– Interest and inflation rate swaps
(46)
–
(46)
(19)
–
(19)
Property#
29
–
29
40
–
40
Secure income assets#%
100
–
100
153
–
153
Fair value longevity swap&
(25)
–
(25)
1
–
1
Cash and other
162
3
165
310
1
311
Total
2,291
280
2,571
2,602
323
2,925
† The amounts represent 100% of the scheme’s assets. 
^ Fixed interest gilts and index-linked gilts totalling £113m (2023: £137m) are assets held in pooled investment vehicles with underlying securities that have quoted prices in active markets. The remaining assets that are neither quoted nor traded on an active market are stated at fair 
value estimates provided by the manager of the investment or fund.
# Level 3 assets with valuations based on unobservable inputs held by the BBPF include hedge funds, property funds, developed nation equities, secure income assets, other return-seeking assets and £172m of corporate bonds, and total £527m (2023: £610m). These are 
pooled investments stated at fair value provided by the fund managers, of which £170m (2023: £130m) have been valued on September 2024 valuations and £13m (2023: £181m) on November 2024 valuations, for which valuations were adjusted for cash movements that 
occurred in the last quarter of the year as a result of December 2024 valuations not being available as at the reporting date. The Directors consider these values to be a fair approximation for these assets at 31 December 2024.
@ Other return-seeking assets are alternative beta assets, which provide exposure to a range of risk premia that are intended to diversify portfolio returns from traditional equity and credit markets. 
% Secure income assets reflect more illiquid investments that offer long term contractual cash flows that can be used for the payment of pensions. 
$ The RPS return-seeking growth pooled funds assets are the Growth Pooled Fund, Illiquid Growth Pooled Fund and the Private Equity Pooled Fund which are HMRC-approved pooled funds.
~ 
The RPS liability-matching pooled funds are Long-Term Income Pooled Funds which are HMRC-approved pooled funds.
& The fair market value of the longevity swap is calculated by taking the present value of the expected cashflows from the floating leg using a market-related discount rate and current best-estimates of market mortality assumptions and risk fees, less the corresponding 
present value of the fixed leg cashflows that are required under the contract. As at 31 December 2024, the fair value has been calculated using the cashflows from the experience collateral calculations performed by Zurich Assurance Limited as at 1 October 2024 
(with the floating leg reflecting member mortality experience up to this date), rolled forward and adjusted to allow for the relevant assumptions at 31 December 2024.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

244
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
31 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued
31.2 IAS 19 accounting valuations continued
Estimated contributions expected to be paid to the Group’s principal defined benefit schemes during 2025
Balfour Beatty
Pension Fund
2025
£m
Railways
Pension
Scheme
2025
£m
Total
2025
£m
Regular funding*
4
1
5
Ongoing deficit funding
5
1
6
Total contributions
9
2
11
Estimated BBPF running costs to be funded from deficit contributions
–
–
–
Estimated total cash contributions
9
2
11
* Includes company contribution toward investment management expenses from April 2025.
The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on reasonably possible changes in key assumptions occurring at the end of the reporting period. In each case the relevant change in assumption 
occurs in isolation from potential changes in other assumptions. In practice more than one variable is likely to change at the same time. The sensitivities have been calculated using the projected unit credit method.
Sensitivity of the Group’s retirement benefit obligations at 31 December 2024 to different actuarial assumptions
Sensitivity to increase in assumption
Sensitivity to decrease in assumption
Assumptions
Percentage
points/years
(Decrease)/
increase in
obligations 
%
(Decrease)/
increase in
obligations 
£m
Percentage
points/years
Increase/
(decrease) in
obligations 
%
Increase/
(decrease) in
obligations 
£m
Discount rate
0.5%
(5.2)%
(132)
(0.5)%
5.7%
145
Market expectation of RPI inflation
0.5%
3.6%
90
(0.5)%
(3.7)%
(94)
Salary growth
0.5%
 <0.1%
–
(0.5)%
<(0.1)%
–
Life expectancy
1 year
3.7%
95
(1 year)
(3.8)%
(96)
Sensitivity of the Group’s retirement benefit assets at 31 December 2024 to changes in market conditions
Percentage
points
(Decrease)/
increase
in assets
%
(Decrease)/
increase
in assets
£m
Increase in interest rates
0.5%
(5.0)%
(127)
Increase in market expectation of RPI inflation
0.5%
3.4%
88
The asset sensitivities only take into account the impact of the changes in market conditions on bond-type assets. The value of the schemes’ return-seeking assets is not directly correlated with movements in 
interest rates or RPI inflation.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

245
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
31 Retirement benefit assets and liabilities continued
31.2 IAS 19 accounting valuations continued
Year end historical information for the Group’s retirement defined benefit schemes
2024
£m
2023
£m
2022
£m
2021
£m
2020
£m
Present value of obligations
(2,569)
(2,856)
(2,803)
(4,201)
(4,317)
Fair value of assets
2,571
2,925
3,026
4,432
4,406
Surplus
2
69
223
231
89
Experience adjustment for obligations
(8)
(2)
21
1
5
Experience adjustment for assets
(337)
(106)
(1,368)
87
392
Total deficit funding
28
25
41
39
15
31.3 Latest formal triennial funding valuations
Balfour Beatty 
Pension Fund 
£m
Railways 
Pension 
Scheme 
£m
Date of last formal triennial funding valuation
31/03/2022
31/12/2022
Scheme deficit
Market value of assets
4,426
342
Present value of obligations
(4,414)
(342)
Surplus in defined benefit scheme
12
–
Funding level
100.3%
100.0%
32 Share capital
2024
2023
Million
£m
Million
£m
Called-up share capital in issue
517
259
544
272
All issued ordinary shares are fully paid. Ordinary shares have a nominal value of £0.50 each and carry no right to fixed income but each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company. 
No ordinary shares were issued during the current or prior year. 
In 2024 the Company commenced the fourth phase of its share buyback programme, which completed on 20 September 2024. The Company purchased 27.1m (2023: 43.3m) shares for a total consideration 
of £100m (2023: £150m) and held those shares in treasury with no voting rights. The purchase of those shares, together with associated fees and stamp duty amounting to £1m (2023: £1m), utilised £101m 
(2023: £151m) of the Company’s distributable profits.
On 31 October 2024, the Company cancelled the 27.1m treasury shares purchased through the 2024 phase of its share buyback programme (2023: 43.3m). This cancellation resulted in a decrease in called-up 
share capital in issue of £13m (2023: £22m) and a corresponding increase in the capital redemption reserve.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

246
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
33 Movements in equity
33.1 Group
Called-up 
share capital
2024
£m
Share
premium
account
2024
£m
Capital
 redemption
 reserve
2024
£m
Share of joint
ventures’
and associates’
reserves
(Note 20.6)
2024
£m
Other reserves
Retained
profits
2024
£m
Noncontrolling
interests
2024
£m
Total
2024
£m
Hedging
reserves
2024
£m
PPP
financial
assets
2024
£m
Currency
translation
reserve
2024
£m
Other 
µ 
2024
£m
At 1 January 2024
272
176
74
(27)
(5)
1
115
46
546
10
1,208
Profit for the year
–
–
–
59
–
–
–
–
119
–
178
Currency translation differences
–
–
–
3
–
–
6
–
–
–
9
Actuarial movements on retirement benefit assets/liabilities
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
(102)
–
(102)
Fair value revaluations
 
– PPP financial assets
–
–
–
(48)
–
(2)
–
–
–
–
(50)
 
– cash flow hedges
–
–
–
10
1
–
–
–
–
–
11
 
– 
investments in mutual funds measured at fair 
value through OCI 
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
2
–
–
2
Tax on items recognised in other comprehensive income
–
–
–
10
–
–
–
–
26
–
36
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year
–
–
–
34
1
(2)
6
2
43
–
84
Ordinary dividends
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
(61)
(1)
(62)
Joint ventures’ and associates’ dividends
–
–
–
(71)
–
–
–
–
71
–
–
Purchase of treasury shares
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
(101)
–
(101)
Cancellation of ordinary shares
(13)
–
13
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
Movements relating to share-based payments+
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
(2)
3
–
1
At 31 December 2024
259
176
87
(64)
(4)
(1)
121
46
501
9
1,130
µ 
Other reserves include £22m of special reserve.
+ Movements relating to share-based payments include a £4m tax credit recognised directly within retained profits.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

247
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
33 Movements in equity continued
33.1 Group continued
Share of joint
ventures’ and
associates’
reserves
(Note 20.6)
2023
£m
Other reserves
Called-up share
capital
2023
£m
Share
premium
account
2023
£m
Capital
redemption
reserve
2023
£m
Hedging
reserves
2023
£m
PPP
financial
assets
2023
£m
Currency
translation
reserve
2023
£m
Other 
µ 
2023
£m
Retained
profits
2023
£m
Noncontrolling
interests
2023
£m
Total
2023
£m
At 1 January 2023
294
176
52
(20)
(4)
1
132
41
706
5
1,383
Profit/(loss) for the year
–
–
–
53
–
–
–
–
144
(3)
194
Currency translation differences
–
–
–
(13)
–
–
(17)
–
–
–
(30)
Actuarial movements on retirement benefit assets/liabilities
–
–
–
(1)
–
–
–
–
(197)
–
(198)
Fair value revaluations
 
– PPP financial assets
–
–
–
20
–
–
–
–
–
–
20
 
– cash flow hedges
–
–
–
2
–
–
–
–
–
–
2
 
– 
investments in mutual funds measured at fair 
value through OCI 
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
1
–
–
1
Recycling of revaluation reserves to the income 
statement on disposal@
–
–
–
(3)
–
–
–
–
–
–
(3)
Tax on items recognised in other comprehensive income
–
–
–
(5)
(1)
–
–
–
49
–
43
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year
–
–
–
53
(1)
–
(17)
1
(4)
(3)
29
Ordinary dividends
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
(58)
–
(58)
Joint ventures’ and associates’ dividends
–
–
–
(60)
–
–
–
–
60
–
–
Purchase of treasury shares
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
(151)
–
(151)
Cancellation of ordinary shares
(22)
–
22
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
Movements relating to share-based payments+
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
4
(7)
–
(3)
Capital contribution
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
8
8
At 31 December 2023
272
176
74
(27)
(5)
1
115
46
546
10
1,208
µ 
Other reserves include £22m of special reserve.
+ 
Movements relating to share-based payments include £nil tax charge recognised directly within retained profits.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

248
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
33 Movements in equity continued
33.2 Company
Called-up
share
capital
£m
Share
premium
account
£m
Capital
redemption
reserve
£m
Other reserves
Retained
profits
£m
Special reserve
£m
Other
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2023
294
176
52
22
114
618
1,276
Profit for the year
–
–
–
–
1
261
262
Currency translation differences
–
–
–
–
–
4
4
Total comprehensive profit for the year
–
–
–
–
1
265
266
Ordinary dividends
–
–
–
–
–
(58)
(58)
Purchase of treasury shares
–
–
–
–
–
(151)
(151)
Cancellation of ordinary shares
(22)
–
22
–
–
–
–
Movements relating to share-based payments+
–
–
–
–
12
(15)
(3)
At 31 December 2023
272
176
74
22
127
659
1,330
Profit for the year
–
–
–
–
–
135
135
Currency translation differences
–
–
–
–
–
2
2
Total comprehensive profit for the year
–
–
–
–
–
137
137
Ordinary dividends
–
–
–
–
–
(61)
(61)
Purchase of treasury shares
–
–
–
–
–
(101)
(101)
Cancellation of ordinary shares
(13)
–
13
–
–
–
–
Movements relating to share-based payments+
–
–
–
–
8
(11)
(3)
At 31 December 2024
259
176
87
22
135
623
1,302
+ Movements relating to share-based payments include £nil tax credit (2023: £nil) recognised directly within retained profits.
As permitted under Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has elected not to present its statement of comprehensive income (including the profit and loss account) for the year. Balfour Beatty 
plc reported a profit for the financial year ended 31 December 2024 of £135m (2023: £262m).
During the year, £101m of the Company’s distributable profits were utilised for the purchase of shares into treasury (2023: £151m) and 27.1m (2023: 43.3m) treasury shares were cancelled. See Note 32.
The majority of the retained profits of Balfour Beatty plc are distributable. By special resolution on 13 May 2004, confirmed by the court on 16 June 2004, the share premium account was reduced by £181m and 
the £4m capital redemption reserve was cancelled, effective on 25 June 2004, and a special reserve of £185m was created. This reserve becomes distributable to the extent of future increases in share capital 
and share premium account, of which £nil occurred in 2024 (2023: £nil).
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

249
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
33 Movements in equity continued
33.3 Balfour Beatty Employee Share Ownership Trust 
The retained profits in the Group and the retained profits of the Company are stated net of investments 
in Balfour Beatty plc ordinary shares acquired by the Group’s employee discretionary trust, the Balfour 
Beatty Employee Share Ownership Trust, to satisfy awards under the Performance Share Plan, the 
Deferred Bonus Plan and the Restricted Share Plan. In 2024, 2.9m (2023: 5.1m) shares were purchased 
at a cost of £12m (2023: £18m). The market value of the 5.9m (2023: 7.5m) shares held by the trust 
at 31 December 2024 was £26.8m (2023: £25.0m). The carrying value of these shares was £21.2m 
(2023: £23.1m). 
Following confirmation of the performance criteria at the end of the performance period in the case 
of the Performance Share Plan, and at the end of the vesting period in the case of the Deferred Bonus 
Plan and the Restricted Share Plan, the appropriate number of shares will be unconditionally transferred 
to participants. In 2024, 2.5m shares were transferred to participants in relation to the March 2021 
and June 2021 awards under the Performance Share Plan (2023: 3.2m shares were transferred to 
participants in relation to the March 2020 and June 2020 awards under the Performance Share Plan), 
0.5m shares were transferred to participants in relation to awards under the Deferred Bonus Plan 
(2023: 1.0m shares) and 1.2m shares were transferred to participants in relation to awards under the 
Restricted Share Plan (2023: 0.9m).
The trustees have waived the rights to dividends on shares held by the trust. Participants in the 
schemes receive an award of shares to represent the dividends which would have been payable 
on the shares since the date of grant.
Other reserves in the Group and Company include £10.2m (2023: £12.2m) relating to unvested 
Performance Share Plan awards, £3.8m (2023: £4.4m) relating to unvested Restricted Share Plan 
awards and £3.3m (2023: £2.7m) relating to unvested Deferred Bonus Plan awards. 
34 Notes to the statement of cash flows
34.1 Cash from/(used in) operations
2024
Notes
Underlying
 items 
1 
£m
Nonunderlying
items
£m
£m
2023
£m
Profit/(loss) from operations
248
(75)
173
211
Share of results of joint ventures 
and associates
20
(59)
–
(59)
(53)
Depreciation of property, plant 
and equipment
17
31
–
31
28
Depreciation of right-of-use assets
18
60
–
60
57
Depreciation of investment properties
19
1
–
1
2
Amortisation of other intangible assets
15
6
4
10
12
Amortisation of contract fulfilment assets
27
–
27
15
Pension deficit payments, including 
regular funding
31.2
(30)
–
(30)
(28)
Movements relating to equity-settled 
share-based payments
10
–
10
15
Gain on disposal of interests 
in investments
35.2/
35.3
(43)
–
(43)
(24)
Profit on disposal of property, plant 
and equipment
(2)
–
(2)
(2)
Other non-cash items
–
–
–
(3)
Operating cash flows before movements 
in working capital
249
(71)
178
230
Decrease in operating working capital
99
63
Inventories
(34)
(11)
Contract assets
74
(4)
Trade and other receivables
 (225)
(73)
Contract liabilities
91
(44)
Trade and other payables
(6)
177
Provisions
199
18
Cash from operations
277
293
1 Before non-underlying items (Notes 2.10 and 10).
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

250
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
34 Notes to the statement of cash flows continued
34.2 Cash and cash equivalents
2024
2023
Group
£m
Company
£m
Group
£m
Company
£m
Cash and deposits
1,084
218
890
150
Term deposits
209
200
218
218
Cash balances within infrastructure 
concessions
265
–
306
–
Bank overdrafts 
(185)
(171)
(104)
(58)
1,373
247
1,310
310
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other short-term, 
highly liquid investments with original maturities of less than three months.
34.3 Analysis of movements in borrowings
Infrastructure
concessions
non-recourse
project finance
£m
US private
placement
£m
Bilateral
 committed 
facility
£m
Bank 
overdrafts
£m
Total
£m
At 1 January 2023
(261)
(345)
–
–
(606)
Currency translation differences
–
14
–
–
14
Proceeds of loans
(336)
–
(28)
(104)
(468)
Repayments of loans
8
169
28
–
205
Fair value adjustment to loan
19
–
–
–
19
At 31 December 2023
(570)
(162)
–
(104)
(836)
Currency translation differences
(1)
(4)
–
–
(5)
Proceeds of loans
(36)
(39)
–
(185)
(260)
Repayments of loans
9
40
–
104
153
Arrangement fees 
3
–
–
–
3
Amortisation of fair value 
adjustment on loan
(5)
–
–
–
(5)
At 31 December 2024
(600)
(165)
–
(185)
(950)
In June 2024, the Group extended its core Revolving Credit Facility (RCF) by one year, to June 2028, 
with the support of the lending bank group. The facility was reduced from £475m to £450m in the 
extension process. The RCF remains a Sustainability Linked Loan (SLL) and subsequent to the 
extension in July 2024, new SLL metrics and targets were agreed with the lending bank group. 
The Group continues to be incentivised to deliver annual measurable performance improvement in 
three key areas: carbon emissions, social value generation and an independent Environment, 
Social and Governance (ESG) rating score. The RCF remained undrawn at 31 December 2024.
The Group retains an additional £30m bilateral committed facility that has materially the same terms 
and conditions as the RCF. The facility is also a SLL, including metrics that mirror the RCF. In the 
second half of the year, the Group triggered its extension option in respect of the bilateral facility, 
to extend the maturity to December 2027. As of 31 December 2024, the facility remained undrawn.
In May 2024, the Group completed the early refinancing of US$50m of US private placement (USPP) 
notes that were set to mature in March 2025. The Group raised US$50m of new USPP notes, on 
terms and conditions that mirror existing notes, and used this new funding to complete the early 
repayment of US$50m USPP notes that were due to expire in March 2025. The new debt is comprised 
of US$25m of 7-year notes, maturing in May 2031 and US$25m of 12-year notes, maturing in May 2036. 
The refinancing exercise extended the debt maturity profile of the Group until 2036, with the next debt 
maturity of US$35m now in June 2027. 
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

251
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
35 Acquisitions and disposals
35.1 Current and prior year acquisitions
On 9 December 2024, the Group acquired an additional 17% of Denver Transit Operators LLC (DTO), an existing joint venture of the Group, for a purchase price of £6m, which increased the Group’s holding 
in this joint venture to 50%. The Group continues to apply equity-method accounting for DTO and has recognised a customer contract intangible asset of £9m as a result of this acquisition. Refer to Note 20.2. 
There were no other acquisitions in 2024 (2023: £nil).
35.2 Current year disposals
During the year, the Group partially disposed of one of its portfolio of Infrastructure Investments assets as detailed below. The gain recognised from the disposal is recorded within the Group’s gain on disposal 
of interests in investments.
Notes
Disposal date
Entity/asset
Structure of sale 
Percentage
 disposed
%
Cash
consideration
£m
Net assets
disposed
£m
Amount recycled
 from reserves
£m
Underlying
gain
£m
35.2.1
16 December 2024
Northside at UTD Phases 1 – 4#
Equity interest sale
5% – 65%
43
–
–
43
43
–
–
43
# Disposal of joint venture.
35.2.1 On 16 December 2024, the Group disposed of 5%, 5%, 65% and 60% of its interests respectively in the four phases of its Northside at UTD portfolio, which is located in Richardson (Dallas), Texas, 
for a cash consideration of £43m. The Group retains a 5% interest in all the entities within this portfolio. The disposal resulted in an underlying gain of £43m.
35.3 Prior year disposals
During 2023, the Group disposed of several Infrastructure Investments assets as detailed below. The gain recognised from the disposal of assets that were held within joint venture entities of the Group was 
recognised within the Group’s share of results of joint ventures and associates.
Notes
Disposal date
Entity/asset
Structure of sale 
Percentage
 disposed
%
Cash
consideration
£m
Net assets
disposed
£m
Amount recycled
 from reserves
£m
Underlying
gain
£m
35.3.1
28 September 2023
Moretti Apartments^ 
Asset sale
n/a
5
(3)
–
2
35.3.2
8 November 2023
Gloucester Waste 
Equity interest sale
49.5
56
(35)
3
24
61
(38)
3
26
^ Disposal of asset within a joint venture entity.
35.3.1 On 28 September 2023, the Group disposed of its Moretti Apartments multifamily property asset located in Homewood, Alabama, and received total cash consideration of £5m. The asset disposal 
resulted in an underlying gain of £2m being recognised in the Group’s share of joint ventures and associates.
35.3.2 On 8 November 2023, the Group disposed of its entire 49.5% interest in UBB Waste (Gloucestershire) Holdings Limited (Gloucester Waste) for a cash consideration of £56m. The disposal included the 
Group’s share of joint venture net assets of £31m and £4m of accrued interest receivable and resulted in a net gain of £24m being recognised in underlying operating profit, including a loss of £6m in respect 
of PPP financial asset reserves and a gain of £9m in respect of hedging reserves recycled to the income statement on disposal.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

252
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
36 Share-based payments
The Company operates three equity-settled share-based payment arrangements, namely the Performance Share Plan (PSP), the Deferred Bonus Plan (DBP) and the Restricted Share Plan (RSP). The Group 
recognised total expenses relating to equity-settled share-based payment transactions of £10m (2023: £15m). Refer to the Remuneration report for details of the PSP and DBP schemes.
The Company also operates three cash-settled share-based payment arrangements, namely the Shadow PSP (SPSP), the Shadow RSP (SRSP) and the Shadow Deferred Bonus Plan (SDBP). These share-based 
payment arrangements mirror the conditions of the equity-settled PSP, RSP and DBP plans, the only difference being they are settled in cash. The Group recognised total expenses relating to cash-settled 
share-based payment transactions of £16m (2023: £9m).
Movements in share plans
Equity-settled share-based payment awards
2024
2023
Number of awards
PSP
conditional
awards
DBP
conditional
awards
RSP
conditional
awards
PSP
conditional
awards
DBP
conditional
awards
RSP
conditional
awards
Outstanding at 1 January
8,224,917
2,053,723
3,379,603
9,616,845
2,301,915
3,600,926
Granted during the year
2,467,740
595,706
743,784
2,625,626
752,862
839,532
Awards in lieu of dividends
–
62,168
87,033
–
65,684
79,471
Forfeited during the year
(626,202)
(124,033)
(230,607)
(776,896)
(108,696)
(279,134)
Exercised during the year
(2,522,453)
(547,502)
(1,232,730)
(3,240,658)
(958,042)
(861,192)
Outstanding at 31 December
7,544,002
2,040,062
2,747,083
8,224,917
2,053,723
3,379,603
Exercisable at 31 December
–
–
–
–
–
–
Weighted average remaining contractual life (years) 
1.1
1.1
1.4
1.2
1.4
1.4
Weighted average share price at the date of exercise for awards exercised in the year 
376.8
370.1
396.9
370.4
371.2
340.5
The principal assumptions, including expected volatility determined from the historical weekly share price movements over the three-year period immediately preceding the award date, used by the consultants 
in the stochastic model for the 33.3% of the PSP awards granted in 2024 subject to market conditions, were:
Award date
Name of award
Number of
 awards
Closing
share 
price on
award date
Pence
Expected
volatility of
shares
%
Expected
term of
awards
Years
Risk-free
interest
rate
%
Calculated
fair value
of an
award
Pence
26 March 2024
PSP award
2,467,740
378.0
25.78%
3.0
4.13
257.0
For the 66.7% of the PSP awards granted in 2024 subject to non-market conditions and for the DBP and RSP awards granted in 2024, the fair value of the awards is the closing share price on the date of grant.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

253
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
36 Share-based payments continued
Movements in share plans continued
Cash-settled share-based payment awards
2024
2023
Number of awards
SPSP
conditional
awards
SDBP
conditional
awards
SRSP
conditional
awards
SPSP
conditional
awards
SDBP
conditional
awards
SRSP
conditional
awards
Outstanding at 1 January
6,488,988
1,250,240
1,235,902
8,383,533
1,598,936
1,346,825
Granted during the year
2,203,042
259,366
365,500
2,278,123
308,417
435,869
Awards in lieu of dividends
–
35,778
36,404
–
38,015
31,159
Forfeited during the year
(13,483)
–
(90,617)
(875,764)
(94,174)
(160,708)
Exercised during the year
(2,070,826)
(327,486)
(342,956)
(3,296,904)
(600,954)
(417,243)
Outstanding at 31 December
6,607,721
1,217,898
1,204,233
6,488,988
1,250,240
1,235,902
Exercisable at 31 December
–
–
–
–
–
–
Weighted average remaining contractual life (years) 
1.18
0.94
1.59
1.2
1.3
1.7
Weighted average share price at the date of exercise for awards exercised in the year 
380.9
382.9
367.44
341.0
341.2
320.9
As at 31 December 2024, the Group’s liability in respect of outstanding cash-settled share-based payment awards amounted to £21m (2023: £21m). This liability has been recorded within accruals.
37 Commitments
Capital expenditure authorised and contracted for which has not been provided for in the financial statements amounted to £11m (2023: £12m) in the Group and £nil (2023: £nil) in the Company.
The Group has committed to provide its share of further equity funding and subordinated debt in Infrastructure Investments projects which have reached financial close. Refer to Note 42(f).
38 Contingent liabilities
The Company and certain subsidiary undertakings have, in the normal course of business, given guarantees and entered into counter-indemnities in respect of bonds relating to the Group’s own contracts and given 
guarantees in respect of their share of certain contractual obligations of joint ventures and associates and certain retirement benefit liabilities of the Balfour Beatty Pension Fund and the Railways Pension Scheme. 
Guarantees are treated as contingent liabilities until such time as it becomes probable payment will be required under the terms of the guarantee.
Provision has been made for the Directors’ best estimate of known legal claims, investigations and legal actions in progress. This includes, but is not limited to, any new claims that may arise relating to fire 
safety regulations under the Building Safety Act. The Group assesses the likelihood of success of claims, actions or ongoing investigations, taking into consideration any legal advice received. No provision is 
made where the Directors consider that the action is unlikely to succeed, or that the Group cannot make a sufficiently reliable estimate of the potential obligation. However, in certain cases where assessments 
are ongoing and the Group cannot yet conclude whether it is probable the claim is valid, a possible obligation may exist at 31 December 2024. In respect of these cases, it is not practicable to estimate the 
financial effect based on the current status of the assessments.
39 Events after the reporting date
In the period from 1 January 2025 to 10 March 2025 (the latest practicable date prior to the date of this Annual Report and Accounts), the Company purchased 5.5m ordinary shares, which are held in treasury 
with no voting rights, for a total consideration of £25m (including stamp duty and fees).
On 17 January 2025, the Group reached agreement to dispose of Omnicom Balfour Beatty, its specialist rail measurement hardware and intelligent software business, for a consideration of £24m 
(subject to adjustment for working capital) to Hitachi Rail. The disposal is subject to various conditions and completion is anticipated to be in the first half of 2025. The carrying value of Omnicom Balfour Beatty 
at 31 December 2024 was £(2)m. Profit on disposal, net of disposal costs, will be recognised once completion is achieved within the Group’s non-underlying results. 
There were no other material post balance sheet events arising after the reporting date.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

254
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
40 Related party transactions
Joint ventures and associates
The Group has contracted with, provided services to, and received management fees from, certain 
joint ventures and associates amounting to £438m (2023: £445m). These transactions occurred in the 
normal course of business at market rates and terms. In addition, the Group procured equipment and 
labour on behalf of certain joint ventures and associates which were recharged at cost with no mark-up. 
The amounts due from or to joint ventures and associates at the reporting date are disclosed in Notes 
25 and 26 respectively.
Transactions with non-Group members
The Group also entered into transactions and had amounts outstanding with related parties which are not 
members of the Group as set out below. This company was a related party as it was controlled, jointly 
controlled or under significant influence by a Director of Balfour Beatty plc.
2024
£m
2023
£m
Site Assist Software Limited 
Purchase of services 
1
1
All transactions with this related party were conducted on normal commercial terms, equivalent to 
those conducted with external parties. No guarantees have been given or received. No expense has 
been recognised in the year for bad or doubtful debts in respect of amounts owed by this related party. 
Compensation of key management personnel of the Company
2024
£m
2023
£m
Short-term benefits
3.409
3.103
Share-based payments
2.420
3.866
5.829
6.969
Key management personnel comprise the executive Directors who are directly responsible for the 
Group’s activities and the non-executive Directors. The compensation included above is in respect 
of the period of the year during which the individuals were Directors. Further details of Directors’ 
emoluments, post-employment benefits and interests are set out in the Remuneration report on 
pages 153 to 174.
During 2024, a member of the Group’s staff was seconded on a full-time basis to The 5% Club, a charity 
which is a dynamic movement of employer-members working to create a shared prosperity across the 
UK by driving ‘earn and learn’ skills training. The expense for the salary cost was borne by the Group 
and no consideration was received in return.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

255
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
41 Financial instruments
Capital risk management
The Group manages its capital to ensure its ability to continue as a going concern and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. The components of capital are as follows: equity 
attributable to equity holders of the Company comprising issued ordinary share capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in Notes 32 and 33; US private placement as disclosed in Note 28; and cash 
and cash equivalents and borrowings as disclosed in Note 28.
The Group maintains or adjusts its capital structure through the payment of dividends to equity holders, issue of new shares and buyback of existing shares, and drawdown of new borrowings and repayment of 
existing borrowings. The policy of the Group is to ensure an appropriate balance between cash, borrowings (other than the non-recourse borrowings of companies engaged in Infrastructure Investments projects), 
working capital and the value in the Infrastructure Investments investment portfolio.
The overall capital risk management strategy of the Group remains unchanged from 2023. 
In 2024 the Company commenced the fourth phase of its share buyback programme, which completed on 20 September 2024. The Company purchased 27.1m (2023: 43.3m) shares for a total consideration 
of £100m (2023: £150m) and held these shares in treasury with no voting rights. The purchase of these shares, together with associated fees and stamp duty amounting to £1m (2023: £1m), utilised £101m 
(2023: £151m) of the Company’s distributable profits.
On 31 October 2024, the Company cancelled the 27.1m treasury shares purchased through the 2024 phase of its share buyback programme (2023: 43.3m). This cancellation resulted in a decrease in called-up 
share capital in issue of £13m (2023: £22m) and a corresponding increase in the capital redemption reserve.
Categories of financial instruments
2024
2023
Loans and
 receivables at
amortised 
cost, cash 
and deposit
£m
Financial
 liabilities at
 amortised cost 
£m
Financial 
assets at 
fair value
through OCI 
£m
Financial
assets at 
fair value
 through P&L 
£m
Derivatives
£m
Loans and
receivables at
 amortised
cost, cash
and deposits
£m
Financial
liabilities at
amortised cost 
£m
Financial
assets at 
fair value
through OCI
£m
Financial
assets at
 amortised
cost
£m
Financial 
assets at
fair value
through P&L
£m
Derivatives 
£m
Financial assets
Mutual funds
–
–
20
–
–
–
–
19
–
–
–
Other investment assets
–
–
–
4
–
–
–
–
2
7
–
PPP financial assets
–
–
21
–
–
–
–
24
–
–
–
Cash and deposits
1,558
–
–
–
–
1,414
–
–
–
–
–
Trade and other receivables
1,360
–
–
–
–
1,145
–
–
–
–
–
Derivatives
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
–
1
Total
2,918
–
41
4
–
2,559
–
43
2
7
1
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables
–
(1,734)
–
–
–
–
(1,708)
–
–
–
–
Unsecured borrowings
–
(350)
–
–
–
–
(266)
–
–
–
–
Infrastructure concessions non-recourse term loans
–
(600)
–
–
–
–
(570)
–
–
–
–
Derivatives
–
–
–
–
(1)
–
–
–
–
–
(2)
Total
–
(2,684)
–
–
(1)
–
(2,544)
–
–
–
(2)
Net
2,918
(2,684)
41
4
(1)
2,559
(2,544)
43
2
7
(1)
Current year comprehensive income/(loss) excluding 
share of joint ventures and associates
63
(29)
2
(2)
1
63
(33)
4
–
(1)
–
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

256
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
41 Financial instruments continued
Derivatives
Financial liabilities 2024
Financial assets/(liabilities) 2023
Current 
£m
Non-current 
£m
Total 
£m
Current 
£m
Non-current 
£m
Total 
£m
Fuel hedges 
Held for trading at fair value through income statement
–
–
–
1
–
1
Forward exchange contracts 
Held for trading at fair value through income statement
–
(1)
(1)
–
(1)
(1)
Interest rate swaps
Designated as cash flow hedges
–
–
–
–
(1)
(1)
–
(1)
(1)
1
(2)
(1)
Non-derivative financial liabilities gross maturity
The following table details the remaining contractual maturity for the Group’s non-derivative financial liabilities. The table reflects the undiscounted contractual maturities of the financial liabilities including interest 
that will accrue on those liabilities except where the Group is entitled to and intends to repay the liability before its maturity. The discount column represents the possible future cash flows included in the 
maturity analysis, such as future interest, that are not included in the carrying value of the financial liability. 
Maturity profile of the Group’s non-derivative financial liabilities at 31 December
2024
2023
Non-recourse
project 
finance 
£m
Other
borrowings 
£m
Other 
financial
liabilities 
£m
Total nonderivative
financial
liabilities 
£m
Discount 
£m
Carrying 
value 
£m
Non-recourse
project 
finance 
£m
Other
borrowings 
£m
Other 
financial
liabilities 
£m
Total nonderivative
financial
liabilities 
£m
Discount 
£m
Carrying 
value 
£m
Due on demand or within one year
(19)
(185)
(1,655)
(1,859)
8
(1,851)
(15)
(104)
(1,593)
(1,712)
6
(1,706)
Due within one to two years
(65)
–
(36)
(101)
9
(92)
(18)
(39)
(82)
(139)
8
(131)
Due within two to five years
(197)
(91)
(42)
(330)
31
(299)
(221)
(27)
(28)
(276)
40
(236)
Due after more than five years
(921)
(74)
(1)
(996)
554
(442)
(934)
(96)
(5)
(1,035)
564
(471)
(1,202)
(350)
(1,734)
(3,286)
602
(2,684)
(1,188)
(266)
(1,708)
(3,162)
618
(2,544)
Discount
602
–
–
602
618
–
–
618
Carrying value
(600)
(350)
(1,734)
(2,684)
(570)
(266)
(1,708)
(2,544)
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

257
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
41 Financial instruments continued
Derivative financial liabilities gross maturity
The following table details the Group’s expected maturity for its derivative financial liabilities. The table 
reflects the undiscounted net cash inflows/(outflows) on the derivative instruments that settle on a net 
basis (interest rate swaps) and undiscounted gross inflows/(outflows) for those derivatives that are 
settled on a gross basis (foreign exchange contracts). When the amount payable or receivable is not 
fixed, the amount disclosed has been determined by reference to the projected interest rates, using 
the yield curves at the reporting date.
Maturity profile of the Group’s derivatives at 31 December
2024
2023
Payable 
£m
Receivable 
£m
Net payable 
£m
Payable 
£m
Receivable 
£m
Net payable 
£m
Due on demand or 
within one year
(37)
36
(1)
(14)
15
1
Due within one to 
two years
(7)
6
(1)
(31)
30
(1)
Due within two to 
five years
–
–
–
(7)
6
(1)
Total
(44)
42
(2)
(52)
51
(1)
Financial risk factors
The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk; credit risk; and liquidity risk. 
The Group’s financial risk management strategy seeks to minimise the potential adverse effect of 
these risks on the Group’s financial performance.
Financial risk management is carried out centrally by Group Treasury under policies approved by the 
Board. Group Treasury liaises with the Group’s business units to identify, evaluate and hedge financial 
risks. The Board provides written principles for overall financial risk management, as well as written 
policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, use of 
derivative financial instruments and non-derivative financial instruments, and the investment of excess 
liquidity. Compliance with policies and exposure limits is monitored through the Group’s internal audit 
and risk management procedures. The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain 
risk exposures. The Group does not trade in financial instruments, including derivative financial 
instruments, for speculative purposes.
(a) Market risk
The Group’s activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange 
rates and interest rates. The Group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its 
exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, including:
 
@ forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the exchange rate risk arising on trading activities 
transacted in a currency that is not the functional currency of the business unit; and
 
@ interest rate swaps to mitigate the cash flow variability in non-recourse project finance loans arising 
from variable interest rates on borrowings.
There has been no material change to the Group’s exposure to market risks and there has been no 
change in how the Group manages those risks since 2023.
(i) Foreign currency risk management
The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from exposure to various 
currencies, primarily to US dollars, euros and Hong Kong dollars. Foreign exchange risk arises from future 
trading transactions, assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations.
Group policy requires business units to manage their transactional foreign exchange risk against their 
functional currency. Whenever a current or future foreign currency exposure is identified with sufficient 
reliability, Group Treasury enters into forward contracts on behalf of business units to cover 100% of foreign 
exchange risk above materiality levels determined by the Chief Financial Officer.
As at 31 December 2024, the notional principal amounts of foreign exchange contracts in respect of foreign 
currency transactions where hedge accounting is not applied was £42m (2023: £51m) receivable and £44m 
(2023: £52m) payable with related cash flows expected to occur within two years (2023: three years). The 
foreign exchange gains or losses resulting from fair valuing these unhedged foreign exchange contracts will 
affect the income statement throughout the same periods.
The Group has not designated any forward exchange contracts as cash flow hedges in 2023 and 2024.
The Group’s investments in foreign operations are exposed to foreign currency translation risks. The Group 
does not enter into forward foreign exchange or other derivative contracts to hedge foreign currency 
denominated net assets.
At 31 December 2024, the Group held US$208m of debt in the form of US private placement (USPP) 
notes. The USPP notes are designated as a net investment hedge against changes in the value of the 
Group’s US net assets due to exchange movements. The Group reassessed the US$208m hedge at 31 
December 2024 and concluded that the hedge continued to be effective. Exchange movements in the year 
led to a £4m increase in the carrying amount of the liability on the Group’s balance sheet (2023: £14m 
decrease). A 5% increase/decrease in the US dollar to sterling exchange rate would lead to a £8m decrease 
(2023: £8m)/£9m increase (2023: £9m) in the carrying amount of the liability on the Group’s balance sheet, 
with the movement recognised in other comprehensive income.
The hedging policy is reviewed periodically. At the reporting date there had been no change to the hedging 
policy since 2023.
(ii) Interest rate risk management
Interest rate risk arises in the Group’s non-recourse project companies which borrow funds at both floating 
and fixed interest rates and hold financial assets measured at fair value through OCI. Floating rate 
borrowings expose the Group to cash flow interest rate risk. The Group’s policy to manage this risk is to 
swap floating rate interest to fixed rate, using interest rate swap contracts.
In an interest rate swap, the Group agrees to exchange the difference between fixed and floating rate 
interest amounts calculated on agreed notional principal amounts. The net effect of a movement in interest 
rates on income would be immaterial. The fair value of interest rate swaps is determined by discounting the 
future cash flows using the yield curve at the reporting date.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

258
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
41 Financial instruments continued
Financial risk factors continued
(a) Market risk continued
(ii) Interest rate risk management continued
During 2024 and 2023, the Group’s non-recourse project subsidiaries’ borrowings at variable rates of 
interest were denominated in sterling. The notional principal amounts of the subsidiaries’ interest rate 
swaps outstanding at 31 December 2024 totalled £17m (2022: £17m) with maturities that match the 
maturity of the underlying borrowings of seven years. At 31 December 2024, the fixed interest rate was 
5.1% (2023: 5.1%) and the principal floating rates are SONIA plus a fixed margin. A 50 basis point increase/
decrease in the interest rate on floating rate borrowings for interest rate swaps would lead to a £nil increase 
(2023: £nil)/£nil decrease (2023: £nil) in amounts taken directly to other comprehensive income by the 
Group in relation to the Group’s exposure to interest rates on the PPP financial assets and cash flow hedges 
of its Infrastructure Investments subsidiaries.
Interest rate risk also arises on the Group’s cash and cash equivalents, term deposits and other borrowings. 
Other than the non-recourse project subsidiaries’ borrowings at variable rates of interest, all the debt of the 
Group is held at fixed interest rates. A 50 basis point increase/decrease in the interest rate of each currency 
in which these financial instruments are held would lead to a £7m decrease (2023: £5m)/£7m increase 
(2023: £5m) in the Group’s net finance cost.
(iii) Price risk management
The Group’s principal price risk exposure arises in its Infrastructure Investments concessions. At the 
commencement of the concession, an element of the unitary payment by the customer is indexed to 
offset the effect of inflation on the concession’s costs. The Group is exposed to price risk to the extent 
that inflation differs from the index used.
(b) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations, resulting in financial 
loss. Credit risk arises from cash and deposits, derivative financial instruments, loans provided to joint 
ventures and associates and credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables and 
committed transactions. The Group has a policy of assessing the creditworthiness of potential 
customers before entering into transactions set by the Board for the Group.
For cash and deposits and derivative financial instruments, the Group has a policy of only using 
counterparties that are independently rated with a minimum long-term credit rating of BBB- and at 
31 December 2024 this criterion was met (2023: BBB-). The credit rating of a financial institution will 
determine the amount and duration for which funds may be deposited under individual risk limits set 
by the Board for the Group and subsidiary companies. Management monitors the utilisation of these 
credit limits regularly.
For trade and other receivables, credit evaluation is performed on the financial condition of accounts 
receivable using independent ratings where available or by assessment of the customer’s credit quality 
based on its financial position, past experience and other factors. The Group’s most significant 
customers are public or regulated industry entities which generally have high credit ratings or are of 
a high credit quality due to the nature of the customer. As such, the Group does not expect material 
credit losses to occur on balances owed to the Group by its public or regulated customers. This is 
in line with the Group’s experience in the past of recovering balances owed by these customers.
The Group is exposed to credit risk on loans provided to joint ventures and associates and accrued 
interest on those loans, as the repayment of these amounts is contingent on the performance of the 
underlying concession or operation. In the Infrastructure Investments segment the concessions are 
typically financed by a combination of non-recourse external borrowings and subordinated loans 
provided by the joint venture partners. The Group assesses any expected credit losses on its loans 
provided to joint ventures and associates by comparing the carrying value of the relevant investment 
in joint venture or associate balance (which includes the loans provided and any accrued interest) 
to future cash flows expected to be received from the joint venture or associate, discounted 
where appropriate. 
The maximum exposure to credit risk in respect of the above at the reporting date is the carrying value 
of financial assets recorded in the financial statements, net of any allowance for losses.
There has been no material change to the Group’s exposure to credit risks and there has been no 
change in how the Group manages those risks since 2023.
(c) Liquidity risk
The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate cash balances and banking facilities, 
continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial 
assets and liabilities. Details of undrawn committed borrowing facilities are set out in Note 28.1. 
The maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities is set out on page 256.
There has been no material change to the Group’s exposure to liquidity risks and there has been 
no change in how the Group manages those risks since 2023.
Fair value estimation
The Group holds certain financial instruments on the balance sheet at their fair values. The following 
hierarchy classifies each class of financial asset or liability in accordance with the valuation technique 
applied in determining its fair value.
There have been no transfers between these categories during 2024 or 2023.
Level 1 – The fair value is calculated based on quoted prices traded in active markets for identical assets 
or liabilities. 
The Group holds investments in mutual funds measured at fair value through OCI which are traded in 
active markets and valued at the closing market price at the reporting date.
Level 2 – The fair value is based on inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are 
observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows 
utilising yield curves at the reporting date and taking into account own credit risk. Own credit risk for 
Infrastructure Investments’ swaps is not material and is calculated using the following credit valuation 
adjustment (CVA) calculation: loss given default multiplied by exposure multiplied by probability of default.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

259
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
41 Financial instruments continued
Financial risk factors continued
(c) Liquidity risk continued
Fair value estimation continued
The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is determined using quoted forward exchange rates at the reporting date and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching the maturities of the 
foreign exchange contracts. Own credit risk for the other derivative liabilities is not material and is calculated by applying a relevant credit default swap (CDS) rate obtained from a third party.
Level 3 – The fair value is based on unobservable inputs.
The fair value of the Group’s PPP financial assets is determined in the construction phase by applying an attributable profit margin by reference to the construction margin on non-PPP projects reflecting 
the construction risks retained by the construction contractor, and fair value of construction services performed. In the operational phase it is determined by discounting the future cash flows allocated to the 
financial asset at a discount rate which is based on long-term gilt rates adjusted for the risk levels associated with the assets, with market-related movements in fair value recognised in other comprehensive 
income and other movements recognised in the income statement. Amounts originally recognised in other comprehensive income are transferred to the income statement upon disposal of the asset. 
A change in the discount rate would have a significant effect on the value of the asset and a 50 basis point increase/decrease, which represents management’s assessment of a reasonably possible change in 
the risk-adjusted discount rate, would lead to a £nil decrease (2023: £1m)/£nil increase (2023:£1m) in the fair value of the assets taken through equity. Refer to Note 22 for a reconciliation of the movement from 
the opening balance to the closing balance.
For PPP financial assets held in joint ventures and associates, a change in the discount rate by a 50 basis point increase/decrease, which represents management’s assessment of a reasonably possible 
change in the risk-adjusted discount rate, would lead to a £21m decrease (2023: £25m)/£21m increase (2023: £26m) in the fair value of the assets taken through equity within the share of joint ventures’ 
and associates’ reserves. 
2024
2023
Financial instruments at fair value
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Level 3
£m
Total
£m
Level 1
£m
Level 2
£m
Level 3
£m
Total
£m
Investments in mutual fund financial assets
20
–
–
20
19
–
–
19
PPP financial assets
–
–
21
21
–
–
24
24
Other investment assets
–
–
4
4
–
–
7
7
Financial assets – fuel hedges
–
–
–
–
–
1
–
1
Total assets measured at fair value
20
–
25
45
19
1
31
51
Financial liabilities – infrastructure 
concessions interest rate swaps
–
–
–
–
–
(1)
–
(1)
Financial liabilities – forward exchange contracts 
–
(1)
–
(1)
–
(1)
–
(1)
Total liabilities measured at fair value
–
(1)
–
(1)
–
(2)
–
(2)
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

260
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
42 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates
(a) Principal subsidiaries
Country of
incorporation 
or registration
Construction and support services 
Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Construction Group Inc
US
Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Inc
US
Infrastructure Investments
Balfour Beatty Communities LLC
US
Balfour Beatty Infrastructure Investments Ltd*
Balfour Beatty Investments Inc
US
Balfour Beatty Campus Solutions LLC
US
Balfour Beatty Developments Inc
US
Other
Balfour Beatty Holdings Inc 
US
(b) Principal joint ventures and associates
Country of
incorporation 
or registration
Ownership
interest 
%
Construction and support services
Gammon China Ltd
Hong Kong
50.0
Infrastructure Investments
Connect Plus (M25) Ltd
15.0
(c) Principal joint operations
The Group carries out a number of its larger contracts in joint arrangements with other contractors so as 
to share resources and risk. The principal joint projects in progress during the year are shown below.
Country of
 incorporation 
or registration
Ownership
 interest 
%
M25 Maintenance
52.5
HS2 – Area North
50.0
Central Rail Systems Alliance
80.0
Old Oak Common
42.0
Gilbane/Balfour Beatty Eccles 1951
US
50.0
Skanska/Balfour Beatty 
US
50.0
Driscoll/Balfour Beatty 
US 
35.0
Andres/Balfour Beatty
US
55.0
Kjellstrom+Lee/Balfour Beatty
US
50.0
LAX Integrated Express Solutions 
US
30.0
LBJ East
US
45.0
Notes
(i) Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates whose results did not, in the opinion of the Directors, materially affect the results or net 
assets of the Group are not shown. 
(ii) Unless otherwise stated, 100% of the equity capital is owned and companies are registered in England and Wales and the principal 
operations of each company are conducted in the country of incorporation.
* Indicates held directly by Balfour Beatty plc.
A full list of the Group’s related undertakings is included in Note 44.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

261
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
42 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued
(d) Balfour Beatty Investments UK
Roads
Balfour Beatty is a promoter, developer and investor in 12 road and street lighting projects to construct new roads, to upgrade and maintain existing roads and to replace and maintain street lighting. The principal 
contract is the project agreement with the governmental highway authority. All assets transfer to the customer at the end of the concession.
Concession company(i)
Project
Total debt 
and equity 
funding 
£m
Shareholding
Method of
accounting
Financial
close
Duration
years
Construction
completion
Connect M1-A1 Ltd(ii)
30km road
290
20%
JV
March 1996
30
1999
Connect A50 Ltd(ii)
57km road
42
25%
JV
May 1996
30
1998
Connect A30/A35 Ltd(ii)
102km road
127
20%
JV
July 1996
30
2000
Connect M77/GSO plc(ii)
25km road
167
85%
JV
May 2003
32
2005
Connect Roads Sunderland Ltd(ii)
Streetlighting
27
20%
JV
August 2003
25
2008
Connect Roads South Tyneside Ltd(ii)
Streetlighting
28
20%
JV
December 2005
25
2010
Connect Roads Derby Ltd
Streetlighting
36
100%
Subsidiary
April 2007
25
2012
Connect Plus (M25) Ltd(ii)
J16 – J23, J27 – J30 and
A1(M) Hatfield Tunnel
1,309
15%
JV
May 2009
30
2012
Connect CNDR Ltd(ii)
Carlisle Northern
Development Route
176
25%
JV
July 2009
30
2012
Connect Roads Coventry Ltd(ii)
Streetlighting
56
20%
JV
August 2010
25
2015
Connect Roads Cambridgeshire Ltd(ii)
Streetlighting
51
20%
JV
April 2011
25
2016
Connect Roads Northamptonshire Ltd(ii)
Streetlighting
64
20%
JV
August 2011
25
2016
Notes
(i) Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are in England and Wales, except Connect M77/GSO plc which is registered, and conducts their principal operations, in Scotland.
(ii) Due to the shareholders’ agreement between Balfour Beatty and the other shareholder requiring unanimity of agreement in respect of significant matters related to the financial and operating policies of this company, the Directors have accounted for its interest in this company 
as a joint venture.
Healthcare
Balfour Beatty is a promoter, developer and investor in two healthcare projects to build hospital accommodation and to provide certain non-medical facilities management services over the concession period. 
The principal contract for Birmingham is the project agreement between the concession company and the NHS Trust and for the Irish primary care centres, the project agreement is with the Irish Government. 
All assets transfer to the customer at the end of the concession.
Concession company(i)(ii)
Project
Total debt 
and equity 
funding 
£m
Shareholding
Method of
accounting
Financial
close
Duration
years
Construction
completion
Consort Healthcare (Birmingham) Ltd 
Teaching hospital and mental health hospital
553
40%
JV
June 2006
40
2011
Healthcare Centres PPP Ltd 
Primary health care centres
158
40%
JV
May 2016
26
2019
Notes
(i) Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are in England and Wales, except Healthcare Centres PPP Ltd which is registered, and conducts its principal operations, in Ireland.
(ii) Due to the shareholders’ agreement between Balfour Beatty and the other shareholder requiring unanimity of agreement in respect of significant matters related to the financial and operating policies of this company, the Directors have accounted for its interest in this company 
as a joint venture.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

262
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
42 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued
(d) Balfour Beatty Investments UK continued
Student accommodation
Balfour Beatty is a promoter, developer and investor in five student accommodation projects. On Holyrood, Aberystwyth and two Sussex projects, the principal agreement is between the concession company and the 
university and the assets transfer to the customer at the end of the concession. On Glasgow Residences the building is owned outright by Balfour Beatty and rooms are let to individual students.
Concession company(i)
Project
Total debt 
and equity 
funding 
£m
Shareholding
Method of
accounting
Financial
close
Duration
years
Construction
completion
Holyrood Student Accommodation SPV Ltd(ii)
Edinburgh
82
20%
JV
July 2013
50
2016
Aberystwyth Student Accommodation Ltd
Aberystwyth
51
100%
Subsidiary
July 2013
35
2015
Glasgow Residences (Kennedy Street) LLP
Glasgow
40
100%
Subsidiary
April 2016
n/a
2017
East Slope Residencies Student Accommodation LLP
Sussex
218
80%
Subsidiary
March 2017
50
2020
West Slope Residencies LLP
Sussex
343
81%
Subsidiary
December 2023
50
2028
Notes
(i) Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are in England and Wales, except Holyrood Student Accommodation SPV Ltd and Glasgow Residences (Kennedy Street) LLP which are registered, and conduct their principal operations, in Scotland.
(ii) Due to the shareholders’ agreement between Balfour Beatty and the other shareholder requiring unanimity of agreement in respect of significant matters related to the financial and operating policies of this company, the Directors have accounted for its interest in this company 
as a joint venture.
Other concessions
Pevensey Coastal Defence Ltd (PCDL) has a 25-year contract with the Environment Agency to maintain a shingle bank sea defence in East Sussex. Thanet involves the operation of transmission assets for the 300MW 
offshore wind farm project located off the Kent coast. Gwynt y Môr involves the operation of transmission assets for the 576MW offshore wind farm in the Irish Sea. Humber involves the operation of transmission 
assets for the 219MW offshore wind farm in the North Sea. Thanet, Gwynt y Môr and Humber operate and maintain the transmission assets under the terms of perpetual licences granted by Ofgem which 
contain the right to be paid a revenue stream over a 20-year period on an availability basis. Welland Bio Power involves the design, construction, financing, operation and maintenance of a 10.4MW waste wood 
gasifier located at Pebble Hall Farm, Thredingworth. The East Wick and Sweetwater development is a London Legacy Development Corporation project, being carried out in phases, which will result in the 
creation of two communities, East Wick and Sweetwater, at the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park in London. With the exception of the Welland Bio Power plant and the Eastwick and Sweetwater project, all 
assets transfer to the customer at the end of the relevant concession. 
Concession company(i)(ii)
Project
Total debt 
and equity 
funding 
£m
Shareholding
Method of
 accounting
Financial
close
Duration
years
Construction
completion
Pevensey Coastal Defence Ltd
Sea defences
3
25%
JV
July 2000
25
n/a
East Wick and Sweetwater Projects (Phase 1) Ltd
Property development
99
50%
JV
January 2019
6
2021
East Wick and Sweetwater Projects (Phase 2) Ltd
Property development
76
50%
JV
August 2023
3
2026
Thanet OFTO Ltd
Offshore transmission
197
20%
JV
December 2014
20
n/a
Gwynt y Môr OFTO plc 
Offshore transmission
256
60%
JV
February 2015
20
n/a
Welland Bio Power Ltd
Waste wood gasifier
17
29.2%
JV
March 2015
n/a
2018
Humber Gateway OFTO Ltd
Offshore transmission
187
20%
JV
September 2016
20
n/a
Notes
(i) Registered in England and Wales and the principal operations of each company are in England and Wales.
(ii) Due to the shareholders’ agreement between Balfour Beatty and the other shareholder requiring unanimity of agreement in respect of significant matters related to the financial and operating policies of this company, the Directors have accounted for its interest in these 
companies as a joint venture.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

263
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
42 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued
(e) Balfour Beatty Investments North America
Military housing
Summary Balfour Beatty through its subsidiary Balfour Beatty Communities LLC is a manager, developer, and investor in a number of US military privatisation projects associated with a total of 55 US 
Government military bases which include 55 military family housing communities and one unaccompanied personnel housing community that are expected to contain approximately 43,000 housing units once 
development, construction and renovation are complete.
The projects comprise 11 military family housing privatisation projects with the United States Department of the Army (Army), seven projects with the United States Department of the Air Force (Air Force) and two 
projects with the United States Department of the Navy (Navy). In addition, there is one unaccompanied personnel housing (UPH) project with the Army at Fort Stewart.
Contractual arrangements The first phase of the project, known as the initial development period, covers the period of initial construction or renovation of military housing on a base, typically lasting three 
to eight years. With respect to Army and Navy projects, the Government becomes a member or partner of the project entity (Project LLC); the Air Force is not a named partner or member in Balfour Beatty 
Communities’ Project LLCs, however it contributes a commitment to provide a Government direct loan to the Project LLC and has similar rights to share in distributions and cash flows of the Project LLC. On each 
project, the Project LLC enters into a ground lease with the Government, which provides the Project LLC with a leasehold interest in the land and title to the improvements on the land for a period of 50 years. 
Each of these military housing privatisation projects includes agreements covering the management, renovation, and development of existing housing units, as well as the development, construction, renovation 
and management of new units during the term of the project, which, in the case of the Army, could potentially extend for up to an additional 25 years. The 50-year duration of each project calls for continuous 
renovation, rehabilitation, demolition and reconstruction of housing units. At the end of the ground lease term the Project LLC’s leasehold interest terminates and all project improvements on the land generally 
transfer to the Government.
Preferred returns The projects will typically receive, to the extent that adequate funds are available, an annual minimum preferred return. On most existing projects, this annual minimum preferred return ranges 
from 9% to 12% of Balfour Beatty Communities’ initial equity contribution to the project.
Allocation of remaining operating cash flow Operating cash flow remaining after the annual minimum preferred return is paid is shared between Balfour Beatty Communities and the reinvestment account 
held by the project for the benefit of the Government. On most of the existing projects, the total amount that Balfour Beatty Communities is entitled to receive (inclusive of the preferred return) is generally 
capped at an annual modified rate of return, or cash-on-cash return, on its initial equity contribution to the project. Historically, these caps have ranged between approximately 9% to 18% depending on the 
particular project and the type of return (annual modified rates of return or cash-on-cash). However, in some of the more recent projects, there are either no annual caps or lower projected annual rates of return. 
The total capped return generally will include the annual minimum preferred return. The reinvestment account is an account established for the benefit of the military, but funds may be withdrawn for 
construction, development and renovation costs during the remaining life of a privatisation project upon approval by the applicable military service.
Return of equity Generally, at the end of a project term, any monies remaining in the reinvestment account are distributed to Balfour Beatty Communities and the Army, Navy or Air Force, in a predetermined 
order of priority. Typically these distributions will have the effect of providing the parties with sufficient funds to provide a minimum annual return over the life of the project and a complete return of the initial capital 
contribution. After payment of the minimum annual return and the return of a party’s initial contribution, all remaining funds will typically be distributed to the applicable military service.
Military concession company(i)
Projects
Total project
funding 
US$m
Financial 
close
Duration 
years
Construction
completion
Military family housing
Fort Carson Family Housing LLC
Army base
176
November 2003
46
2004
– Fort Carson expansion
130
November 2006
43
2010
– Fort Carson GTA expansion
99
April 2010
39
2013
– Fort Carson GTA II expansion
68
June 2015
34
2018
Stewart Hunter Housing LLC
Two Army bases
374
November 2003
50
2012
Fort Hamilton Housing LLC
Army base
61
June 2004
50
2009
Fort Detrick/Walter Reed Army Medical Center Housing LLC
Two Army bases
112
July 2004
50
2008
Northeast Housing LLC
Seven Navy bases
496
November 2004
50
2010
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

264
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
42 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued
(e) Balfour Beatty Investments North America continued
Military housing continued
Military concession company(i)
Projects
Total project
funding 
US$m
Financial 
close
Duration 
years
Construction
completion
Fort Eustis/Fort Story Housing LLC
Two Army bases
175
March 2005
50
2011
– Fort Eustis expansion
8
July 2010
45
2011
– Fort Eustis – Marseilles Village
26
March 2013
42
2015
Fort Bliss/White Sands Missile Range Housing LP
Two Army bases
427
July 2005
50
2011
– Fort Bliss expansion
46
December 2009
46
2011
– Fort Bliss GTA expansion phase I
156
July 2011
44
2014
– Fort Bliss GTA expansion phase II
146
November 2012
43
2016
Fort Eisenhower Housing LLC
Army base
159
May 2006
50
2012
Carlisle/Picatinny Family Housing LP
Two Army bases
84
July 2006
50
2011
– Carlisle Heritage Heights phase II
21
October 2012
44
2014
AETC Housing LP
Four Air Force bases
359
February 2007
50
2012
Southeast Housing LLC
11 Navy bases
558
November 2007
50
2013
Vandenberg Housing LP
Air Force base
155
November 2007
50
2012
Leonard Wood Family Communities LLC
Army base
231
Acquired June 2008
47
2014
AMC West Housing LP
Three Air Force bases
428
July 2008
50
2015
West Point Housing LLC
Army base
220
August 2008
50
2016
Fort Jackson Housing LLC
Army base
181
October 2008
50
2013
Lackland Family Housing LLC
Air Force base
105
Acquired December 2008
50
2013
Western Group Housing LP
Four Air Force bases
328
March 2012
50
2017
Northern Group Housing LLC
Six Air Force bases
427
August 2013
50
2019
ACC Group Housing LLC
Two Air Force bases
56
June 2014
50
2018
Military unaccompanied personnel housing
Stewart Hunter Housing LLC
36 
January 2008
50
2010
Note
(i) Registered in the US and the principal operations of each project are conducted in the US.
The Group evaluated each of its interests in the military housing projects to determine if the entities should be consolidated. This analysis included, but was not limited to, identifying the activities that most 
significantly impact an entity’s economic performance, which party or parties control those activities and the risks associated with these entities. Decision-making power over key facets of the contracts was 
evaluated when determining which party or parties had control over the activities that most significantly impacted a project’s economics. Based on this review, the Directors consider that the Group does not 
have the power to direct these activities and does not have control and therefore the Group does not consolidate the military housing projects and accounts for these projects as investments in associates.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

265
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
42 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued
(e) Balfour Beatty Investments North America continued
Aviation
Summary Balfour Beatty is a developer, operator and investor in an automated people mover at Los Angeles International Airport. The people mover will be a 2.25-mile above ground airport transport system. 
Contractual arrangements The principal contract is the project agreement between the concession partnership and the airport authority. All assets transfer to the authority at the end of the concession.
Concession company
Project
Total project
 funding 
US$m
Shareholding
Method of
 accounting
Financial 
close
Duration 
years
Construction
 completion
LAX Integrated Express Solutions LLC(i)(ii)
LINXS
2,828
27%
JV
June 2018
30
2024
Notes
(i) Registered in the US and the principal operations of the project are conducted in the US.
(ii) Due to the shareholders’ agreement between Balfour Beatty and the other shareholder requiring unanimity of agreement in respect of significant matters related to the financial and operating policies of this company, the Directors have accounted for its interest in this company 
as a joint venture.
Residential investments
Summary Balfour Beatty is a developer, operator and investor in nine multifamily residential projects.
Contractual arrangements Balfour Beatty has acquired residential apartment buildings for nine multifamily residential projects. For all residential projects, the entities have entered into agreements with 
Balfour Beatty Communities LLC to perform the operations and renovation work.
Residential investments(i)(ii)
Total project 
funding 
US$m
Shareholding
Method of
 accounting
Financial 
close
Renovation 
completion
Carolina Cove (Wilmington) Owner LLC (North Carolina)
48
50%
JV
December 2017
2022
Lexington (Ridgeland) Owner, LLC (Jackson, Mississippi)
27
50%
JV
August 2018
2025
Landings (Jacksonville) Owner, LLC (Florida)
48
50%
JV
August 2019
2025
Retreat at Schillinger (Mobile) Owner, LLC (Alabama)
33
50%
JV
December 2019
2026
Paces Brook (Columbia) Owner, LLC (South Carolina)
27
50%
JV
December 2019
2026
Chenal Pointe (Little Rock) Owner, LLC (Arkansas)
34
50%
JV
October 2020
2027
San Mateo (Kissimmee) Owner, LLC (Florida)
81
50%
JV
August 2021
2027
View SA LLC (San Antonio, Texas)
76
87%
JV
June 2022
2025
Mt Laurel, LLC (New Jersey)
80
31%
JV
June 2024
2025
Notes
(i) Registered in the US and the principal operations of each project are conducted in the US.
(ii) Due to the shareholders’/partnership agreement between Balfour Beatty and the other shareholder/partner requiring unanimity of agreement in respect of significant matters related to the financial and operating policies of this undertaking, the Directors have accounted 
for its interests in these undertakings as a joint venture.
Student accommodation
Summary Balfour Beatty is also a developer and owner of seven student accommodation projects. 
Contractual arrangements The principal contracts in the student accommodation projects are the ground leases, development leases and operating agreements with the state universities setting out the 
obligations for the construction, operation and maintenance of the student accommodation including lifecycle replacement during the concession period. The Tallahassee and Denton projects are investments 
in existing off-campus student housing communities which are structured as subsidiaries.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

266
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
42 Principal subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates continued
(e) Balfour Beatty Investments North America continued
Student accommodation continued
Concession company(i)(ii)
Total project
funding 
US$m
Shareholding
Method of
 accounting
Financial 
close
Duration 
years
Construction/
renovation
 completion
Northside Campus Partners LP (Texas Dallas)
54
5%
JV
March 2015
61
2016
Northside Campus Partners 2, LP (Texas Dallas)
67
5%
JV
February 2017
61
2018
Northside Campus Partners 3, LP (Texas Dallas) 
36
5%
JV
June 2019
61
2020
Northside Campus Partners 4, LP (Texas Dallas) 
70
5%
JV
December 2019
61
2021
Swiftsure Housing Partners, LLC (Vanderbilt) 
154
23%
JV
April 2021
45
2023
Oktiv (Tallahassee) Owner, LLC (Florida)
53
100%
Subsidiary
June 2023
2025
Leonard (Denton) Owner, LLC (Texas)
45
100%
Subsidiary
December 2024
2026
Notes
(i) Registered in the US and the principal operations of each project are conducted in the US.
(ii) Due to the shareholders’/partnership agreement between Balfour Beatty and the other shareholder/partner requiring unanimity of agreement in respect of significant matters related to the financial and operating policies of this undertaking, the Directors have accounted 
for its interests in these undertakings as a joint venture.
(f) Balfour Beatty Investments UK and North America
Total future committed equity and debt funding for Infrastructure Investments’ project companies
Concessions
2025 
£m
2026 
£m
2027
£m
2028
onwards 
£m
Total 
£m
UK
Student accommodation
–
–
19
13
32
Other concessions
5
–
–
–
5
5
–
19
13
37
North America
Aviation
21
–
–
–
21
Residential investments 
16
–
–
–
16
37
–
–
–
37
42
–
19
13
74
Projects at financial close
21
–
19
13
53
Projects at preferred bidder stage
21
–
–
–
21
Total
42
–
19
13
74
43 Audit exemptions taken for subsidiaries
The following subsidiaries are exempt from the requirements under the Companies Act 2006 relating to the audit of individual financial statements by virtue of Section 479A of the Act.
Company registration number
Education Investments Holdings Ltd
6863458
Consort Healthcare Infrastructure Investments Ltd
6859623
Manchester Residences (New Cross) Ltd
11201596
South Cambridgeshire Investments Holdings Limited
12843704
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

267
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
44 
Details of related undertakings of Balfour Beatty plc as at 31 December 2024
In accordance with Section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 a full list of subsidiaries, partnerships, associates and joint ventures, including the principal activity, the country of incorporation and the effective 
percentage of equity owned as at 31 December 2024 is disclosed below. Unless otherwise stated, all interests are in the ordinary share capital or shares of common stock in the entity and are held indirectly by 
the Company, and all entities operate principally in their country of incorporation. All subsidiaries had a reporting period ended 31 December 2024 and are wholly owned and consolidated into the Group’s results, 
except where indicated. 
Subsidiary undertakings incorporated in the United Kingdom
Entity
Principal activity
Q14 Quorum Business Park, Benton Lane, Newcastle upon 
Tyne NE12 8BU
Aberystwyth Student 
Accommodation Ltd
Infrastructure Concession
Balfour Beatty Infrastructure 
Investments Ltd(i) 
Investment Holding Company
Balfour Beatty Infrastructure 
Partners Member Ltd 
Dormant
Balfour Beatty Infrastructure 
Projects Investments Ltd
Investment Holding Company
Balfour Beatty Investments Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty OFTO 
Holdings Ltd 
Investment Holding Company
Balfour Beatty Rail Corporate 
Services Ltd 
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty WorkSmart Ltd
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
BBI Holdings Australia Ltd
Dormant
BBPF LLP(iii)
Investment Partnership
Connect Roads Derby 
Holdings Ltd 
Investment Holding Company 
Connect Roads Derby Ltd 
Infrastructure Concession
Connect Roads Infrastructure 
Investments Ltd 
Investment Holding Company
Consort Healthcare 
Infrastructure Investments Ltd 
Investment Holding Company 
East Slope Residencies Facilities 
Management Ltd 
Infrastructure Concession
East Slope Residencies 
Holdings Ltd 
Investment Holding Company 
East Slope Residencies 
Partner Ltd 
Investment Holding Company
East Slope Residencies plc(ii)
Infrastructure Concession
East Slope Residencies Student 
Accommodation LLP(ii)(iii)
Infrastructure Concession
Education Investments 
Holdings Ltd
Investment Holding Company 
Entity
Principal activity
Initial GP1 Ltd 
Investment Holding Company 
Manchester Residences 
(New Cross) Ltd 
Infrastructure Concession
South Cambridgeshire 
Investments Holdings Ltd
Investment Holding Company
Urban Fox Networks (UK) Ltd(vi)
Infrastructure Concession
West Slope Residencies 
Facilities Management Ltd
Infrastructure Concession
West Slope Residencies 
Finance Ltd
Infrastructure Concession
West Slope Residencies 
Holdings Ltd(v)
Investment Holding Company
West Slope Residencies 
LLP(iii)(v)
Infrastructure Concession
West Slope Residencies 
Partner Ltd
Investment Holding Company
West Stratford Developments 
Ltd(iv)
Investment Holding Company 
5 Churchill Place, Canary Wharf, London E14 5HU
Avatar Ltd 
Dormant 
Balfour Beatty Build Ltd 
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd 
Balfour Beatty Building Ltd 
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd 
Balfour Beatty CE Ltd
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd 
Balfour Beatty Civil 
Engineering (SW) Ltd 
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd 
Balfour Beatty Civil 
Engineering Ltd 
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd 
Balfour Beatty Civils Ltd 
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd 
Balfour Beatty Const Ltd 
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd 
Balfour Beatty Construction 
(SW) Ltd 
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd 
Balfour Beatty Construction 
International Ltd 
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd 
Balfour Beatty Construction 
Northern Ltd 
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd 
Entity
Principal activity
Balfour Beatty Engineering 
Services (HY) Ltd 
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd 
Balfour Beatty Engineering Ltd
Dormant
Balfour Beatty Group 
Employment Ltd 
Employer For UK Workforce
Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Construction & Support Services
Balfour Beatty Homes Ltd
Agent of Manring Homes Ltd 
Balfour Beatty International Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd 
Balfour Beatty Investment 
Holdings Ltd(i)
Investment Holding Company
Balfour Beatty Management Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd 
Balfour Beatty Nominees Ltd 
Nominee Company
Balfour Beatty Overseas 
Investments Ltd
Investment Holding Company
Balfour Beatty Overseas Ltd
Investment Holding Company
Balfour Beatty Property Ltd(i)
Agent of Balfour Beatty plc
Balfour Beatty Rail 
Infrastructure Services Ltd 
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd 
Balfour Beatty Rail Ltd 
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd 
Balfour Beatty Rail Projects Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd 
Balfour Beatty Rail 
Technologies Ltd 
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd 
Balfour Beatty Rail Track 
Systems Ltd 
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd 
Balfour Beatty 
Refurbishment Ltd
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd 
Balfour Beatty Regional 
Construction Ltd 
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd 
Balfour Beatty Utility 
Solutions Ltd 
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd 
Balfour Kilpatrick Ltd 
Dormant 
BB Indonesia Ltd
Support Services
Balvac Ltd 
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd 
Bical Construction Ltd 
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd 
Bignell & Associates Ltd
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd 
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

268
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
Entity
Principal activity
Birse Group Ltd 
Investment Holding Company
Birse Metro Ltd
Dormant
Bnoms Ltd(i)
Nominee Company
BPH Equipment Ltd 
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Cowlin Group Ltd 
Dormant
Devonshire House Dormant 
Three Ltd
Dormant 
Guinea Investments Ltd 
Investment Holding Company
G. N. Haden & Sons Ltd 
Dormant
Haden Building Services Ltd
Dormant
Haden Young Ltd(i)
Dormant 
Hall & Tawse Western Ltd 
Dormant 
Laser Rail Ltd 
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd 
Lounsdale Electric Ltd 
Dormant 
Manring Homes Ltd(i)
Property Investment
Multibuild (Construction & 
Interiors) Ltd 
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd 
Office Projects (Interiors) Ltd
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd 
Raynesway Construction Ltd 
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd 
Strata Construction Ltd
Dormant
Hereford Steel Works, Holmer Road, Hereford HR4 9SW
Painter Brothers Ltd 
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Kings Business Park, Kings Drive, Prescot, Merseyside L34 1PJ
Balfour Beatty Pension Trust 
Ltd(i)
Pension Fund Trustee
C/O Mc Griggors LLP, Arnott House, 12–16 Bridge Street, 
Belfast BT1 1LS, Northern Ireland
Balfour Kilpatrick Northern 
Ireland Ltd 
Dormant
The Curve Building, Axis Business Park, Hurricane Way, 
Langley, Berkshire SL3 8AG
Balfour Beatty Ground 
Engineering Ltd 
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Infrastructure 
Services Ltd 
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Balfour Beatty Living Places Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Sunderland Streetlighting Ltd 
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Testing and Analysis Ltd 
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Entity
Principal activity
Maxim 7, Maxim Office Park, Parklands Avenue, Eurocentral, 
Holytown ML1 4WQ
Balfour Beatty Construction Ltd Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd 
Balfour Beatty Construction 
Scottish & Southern Ltd 
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd 
Balfour Beatty Kilpatrick Ltd 
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd 
Balfour Beatty Rail Residuary Ltd 
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd 
Balfour Beatty Regional Civil 
Engineering Ltd 
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd 
BBPFS LP(iii)
Investment Partnership
Glasgow Residences (Kennedy 
Street) Holdings Ltd
Investment Holding Company
Glasgow Residences (Kennedy 
Street) LLP(iii)
Infrastructure Concession 
Glasgow Residences (Kennedy 
Street) SPV Ltd 
Infrastructure Concession
Hall & Tawse Ltd 
Dormant 
Initial Founder Partner GP1 Ltd Investment Holding Company
Midmill Business Park, Tumulus Way, Kintore, Aberdeenshire 
AB51 0TG
Balfour Beatty Engineering 
Services (CL) Ltd
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Tower Bridge House, St Katharine’s Way, London E1W 1DD
Balfour Beatty Power 
Construction Ltd
Dormant
Balfour Beatty Power Networks 
(Distribution Services) Ltd
Dormant 
Branlow Ltd
Dormant – In liquidation
Mansell Maintenance Ltd
Dormant
30 Old Bailey, London EC4M 7AU
Birse Construction Ltd
Investment Holding Company – 
In Liquidation
Edgar Allen Engineering Ltd 
Dormant – In Liquidation
Mansell plc 
Investment Holding Company – 
In Liquidation
West Service Road, Raynesway, Derby DE21 7BG
Balfour Beatty Plant & Fleet 
Services Ltd 
Agent of Balfour Beatty Group Ltd
Entity
Principal activity
C/O Mazars LLP, 100 Queen Street, Glasgow G1 3DN Scotland
Balfour Beatty Engineering 
Services (LEL) Ltd
Dormant – In liquidation
Lumina Building, 40 Ainslie Road, Hillington Park, Glasgow 
G52 4RU 
Shaw-Petrie Ltd
Dormant
42-44 Clarendon Road, Watford, Hertfordshire WD17 1DR
Barlow & Young, Ltd 
Dormant
Haden International Ltd
Dormant
Fourth Floor, 130 Wilton Road, London SW1V 1LQ
00158345 Ltd
Dormant
01198171 Ltd
Dormant
BICC Dormant One Ltd
Dormant
Devonshire House Dormant 
One Ltd
Dormant
Third Floor Devonshire House, Mayfair Place, London W1X 5FH
BICC Thermoheat Ltd
Dormant
Notes
(i) 
Held directly by Balfour Beatty plc.
(ii) 80% owned.
(iii) Partnership interests held.
(iv) 31 March year end.
(v) 81% owned.
(vi) The Group holds a 77.8% direct interest in Urban Fox Networks (UK) Ltd and an 
indirect interest of 5.6% through the Group interest in Urban Electric Networks Ltd. 
44 Details of related undertakings of Balfour Beatty plc as at 31 December 2024 continued
Subsidiary undertakings incorporated in the United Kingdom continued 
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

269
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Entity
Principal activity
Australia
Level 12, 680 George Street, Sydney, NSW 2000
Balfour Beatty Australian 
Limited Partnership(ii)
Holding company
Level 12, 680 George Street, Sydney, NSW 2000 
Balfour Beatty Australia Pty Ltd
Construction & Support Services
Bahamas
The Alexander Corporate Group Limited, One Millars Court, 
P.O. Box N-7117, Nassau
Balfour Beatty Bahamas Ltd 
Dormant – In liquidation
Canada
Borden Ladner Gervais LLP, 22 Adelaide Street West, Suite 
3400, Toronto, ON, M5H 4E3
BB Group Canada Inc
Investment Holding Company
Taylor McCaffrey LLP, 900-400 St. Mary Avenue, Winnipeg, 
MB, R3C 4K5
Balfour Beatty Communities 
GP, Inc
Infrastructure Investment
Balfour Beatty Communities, 
LP (ii)
Infrastructure Investment
Balfour Beatty Construction, 
LP (ii)
Construction Services 
Balfour Beatty Construction 
GP, Inc
Construction Services 
Balfour Beatty Investments 
GP, Inc 
Infrastructure Investment
Balfour Beatty Investments, LP (ii) Infrastructure Investment
Germany
Garmischer Strasse 35, 81373 Munich
Balfour Beatty Rail GmbH
Dormant 
BICC Holdings GmbH
Dormant 
Schreck-Mieves GmbH
Dormant 
Hong Kong
5/F, Manulife Place348 Kwun Tong Road Kowloon Hong Kong
Balfour Beatty Hong Kong Ltd
Construction & Support Services 
Entity
Principal activity
India
6th Floor, N-1 Balsa Block, Manyata Embassy Business Park, 
Nagavara, Rachenahalli Village, Bangalore – 560045, India
Balfour Beatty Infrastructure 
India Pvt. Ltd
Engineering Design Consultancy 
Ireland
3 Dublin Landings, North Wall Quay, Dublin 1, D01 C4E0
Balfour Beatty Ireland Ltd
Support Services 
Isle of Man
Tower House, Loch Promenade, Douglas IM1 2LZ, Isle of Man
Delphian Insurance Company 
Ltd(i)
Insurance Company 
Jersey
12 Castle Street, St. Helier, Jersey
Balfour Beatty Employees 
Trustees Ltd(i)
Employee Trust
Malaysia
12th Floor, Menara symphony, No 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, 
Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor
Balfour Beatty Rail Design 
International Sdn Bhd 
Support Services 
Netherlands
Rapenburgerstraat 177/B, 1011 VM Amsterdam
Balfour Beatty Netherlands B.V.
Investment Holding Company 
Romania
23 General Ernest Brosteanu Street, 1st District, 010527, 
Bucharest
S.C. Balfour Beatty Rail S.R.L.
Dormant - In Liquidation
Sri Lanka
Phase 3 Investment Promotion Zone, Katunayake, Colombo, 
Western Province
Balfour Beatty Ceylon 
(Private) Ltd 
Support Services
Thailand
9 Soi Santisuk, Sithisarn Road, Huay Kwang, Bangkok
Asia Trade Development Co Ltd Dormant
Entity
Principal activity
Balfour Beatty Construction 
(Thailand) Co Ltd 
Dormant
Balfour Beatty Holdings 
(Thailand) Co Ltd 
Dormant
Balfour Beatty Thai Ltd 
Dormant
Linwood Co Ltd 
Dormant
United States
1011 Centre Road, Suite 310, Wilmington DE 19805
Balfour Beatty Holdings Inc
Investment Holding Company
Balfour Beatty LLC 
Investment Holding Company
300 Galleria Parkway, Suite 2050, Atlanta, GA 30339 
National Engineering & 
Contracting Company 
Construction Services
Balfour Beatty Infrastructure, Inc Construction Services
Corporation Service Company, 1127 Broadway Street NE, 
Suite 310, Salem OR 97301
Balfour Beatty Rock Springs, 
LLC
Construction Services
Corporation Service Company, 1703 Laurel Street, Columbia, 
SC 29201
National Casualty and 
Assurance, Inc 
Insurance Company
Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, 
Wilmington DE 19808
Balfour Beatty Campus 
Solutions, LLC
Infrastructure Holding Company 
Balfour Beatty Communities, 
LLC
Infrastructure Investment 
Balfour Beatty Construction 
D.C., LLC
Construction Services 
Balfour Beatty Construction, 
LLC
Construction Services 
Balfour Beatty Developments 
Holdo, LLC
Infrastructure Investment
Balfour Beatty Developments, 
Inc
Construction Services
44 Details of related undertakings of Balfour Beatty plc as at 31 December 2024
Subsidiary undertakings incorporated outside the United Kingdom 
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

270
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
Entity
Principal activity
Balfour Beatty Equipment, LLC
Construction Services 
Balfour Beatty Investments, Inc Investment Company
Balfour Beatty Management Inc Business Services 
Balfour Beatty/Benham 
Military Communities LLC (v)
Infrastructure Investment
Balfour Beatty/PHELPS Military 
Communities LLC(iv)
Infrastructure Investment
Balfour Beatty Military Housing 
Development LLC
Infrastructure Investment 
Balfour Beatty Military Housing 
Investments LLC
Investment Holding Company 
Balfour Beatty Military Housing 
Management LLC
Infrastructure Investment 
Balfour Beatty – Worthgroup, 
LLC
Construction Services 
BBC AF Housing Construction 
LLC
Infrastructure Investment 
BBC AF Management/
Development LLC
Infrastructure Investment 
BBC Independent Member I, Inc Infrastructure Investment 
BBC Independent Member II, 
Inc
Infrastructure Investment 
BBC Military Housing – ACC 
Group, LLC
Infrastructure Investment 
BBC Military Housing – AETC 
General Partner LLC(iii)
Infrastructure Investment 
BBC Military Housing – AETC 
Limited Partner LLC(iii)
Infrastructure Investment 
BBC Military Housing – AMC 
General Partner LLC
Infrastructure Investment 
BBC Military Housing – AMC 
Limited Partner LLC
Infrastructure Investment 
BBC Military Housing – Bliss/
WSMR General Partner LLC
Infrastructure Investment 
BBC Military Housing – Bliss/
WSMR Limited Partner LLC
Infrastructure Investment 
BBC Military Housing – Carlisle/
Picatinny General Partner LLC
Infrastructure Investment
BBC Military Housing – Carlisle/
Picatinny Limited Partner LLC
Infrastructure Investment 
Entity
Principal activity
BBC Military Housing – FDWR 
LLC (v)
Infrastructure Investment 
BBC Military Housing – Fort 
Carson LLC
Infrastructure Investment 
BBC Military Housing – Fort 
Eisenhower LLC
Infrastructure Investment 
BBC Military Housing – Fort 
Hamilton LLC
Infrastructure Investment 
BBC Military Housing – Fort 
Jackson LLC
Infrastructure Investment 
BBC Military Housing – Hampton 
Roads LLC
Infrastructure Investment 
BBC Military Housing – Lackland 
LLC
Infrastructure Investment 
BBC Military Housing – Leonard 
Wood LLC
Infrastructure Investment 
BBC Military Housing – Navy 
Northeast LLC (v)
Infrastructure Investment 
BBC Military Housing – Navy 
Southeast LLC
Infrastructure Investment 
BBC Military Housing – Northern 
Group, LLC
Infrastructure Investment 
BBC Military Housing – Stewart 
Hunter LLC
Infrastructure Investment 
BBC Military Housing – 
Vandenberg General Partner LLC 
(v)
Infrastructure Investment 
BBC Military Housing – 
Vandenberg Limited Partner LLC 
(v) 
Infrastructure Investment 
BBC Military Housing – West 
Point LLC
Infrastructure Investment 
BBC Military Housing – Western 
General Partner, LLC
Infrastructure Investment 
BBC Military Housing – Western 
Limited Partner, LLC
Infrastructure Investment 
BBC Multifamily Holdings, LLC
Infrastructure Investment 
BBCS – Northside Campus LLC
Infrastructure Investment 
BBCS Development, LLC
Infrastructure Investment 
Entity
Principal activity
BB Developments Sub Holdco, 
LLC
Infrastructure Investment
BICC Cables Corporation
Business Services 
Leonard (Denton) Owner, LLC
Infrastructure Investment
Northside Campus Limited 
Partner, LLC
Infrastructure Concession
River Pointe (Conrow) Owner, 
LLC
Infrastructure Investment
Oktiv (Tallahassee) Owner, LLC
Infrastructure Investment
Corporation Service Company, 300 Deschutes Way SW, Suite 
304, Tumwater WA 98501
Howard S. Wright 
Construction Co
Construction Services
HSW, Inc 
Construction Services
CSC – Nevada, C/O CSC Services of Nevada, Inc., 502 East 
John Street Carson City, Nevada 89706
Balfour Beatty-Golden 
Construction Company
Construction Services
Balfour Beatty Construction 
Company, Inc
Construction Services
Balfour Beatty Construction 
Group, Inc 
Construction Services
Notes
(i) 
Held directly by Balfour Beatty plc.
(ii) 
Partnership interests held.
(iii) 80% interest held. 
(iv) 89% interest held. 
(v) 
90% interest held.
44 Details of related undertakings of Balfour Beatty plc as at 31 December 2024 continued
Subsidiary undertakings incorporated outside the United Kingdom continued
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

271
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Joint ventures incorporated in the United Kingdom
Entity
% held by the 
Group
Principal activity
Q14 Quorum Business Park, Benton Lane, Newcastle Upon Tyne, England, England, NE12 8BU
BBDE Orbital Holdings, LLP(iii) (v)
37.5
Investment Holding Company 
Connect A30/A35 Holdings Ltd(iv)
20
Investment Holding Company 
Connect A30/A35 Ltd(iv)
20
Infrastructure Concession 
Connect A50 Ltd(iv)
25
Infrastructure Concession 
Connect CNDR Holdings Ltd(iv)
25
Investment Holding Company 
Connect CNDR Intermediate Ltd(iv)
25
Infrastructure Concession 
Connect CNDR Ltd(iv)
25
Infrastructure Concession 
Connect M1-A1 Holdings Ltd(i)(iv)
20
Investment Holding Company 
Connect M1-A1 Ltd(iv) 
20
Infrastructure Concession 
Connect M77/GSO Holdings Ltd(ii)(iv)
85
Investment Holding Company 
Connect M77/GSO plc(ii)(iv)
85
Infrastructure Concession 
Connect Roads Cambridgeshire Holdings Ltd 
20
Investment Holding Company 
Connect Roads Cambridgeshire Intermediate Ltd
20
Infrastructure Concession 
Connect Roads Cambridgeshire Ltd
20
Infrastructure Concession 
Connect Roads Coventry Holdings Ltd
20
Investment Holding Company 
Connect Roads Coventry Intermediate Ltd 
20
Infrastructure Concession 
Connect Roads Coventry Ltd
20
Infrastructure Concession 
Connect Roads Ltd(iv)
25
Investment Holding Company 
Connect Roads Northamptonshire Holdings Ltd 
20
Investment Holding Company
Connect Roads Northamptonshire Intermediate Ltd 
20
Infrastructure Concession
Connect Roads Northamptonshire Ltd 
20
Infrastructure Concession 
Connect Roads South Tyneside Holdings Ltd
20
Investment Holding Company 
Connect Roads South Tyneside Ltd
20
Infrastructure Concession 
Connect Roads Sunderland Holdings Ltd
20
Investment Holding Company 
Connect Roads Sunderland Ltd
20
Infrastructure Concession 
East Wick and Sweetwater Projects (Holdings) Ltd(iv)
50
Infrastructure Concession 
East Wick and Sweetwater Projects (Phase 1) Ltd(iv)
50
Infrastructure Concession 
44 Details of related undertakings of Balfour Beatty plc as at 31 December 2024 continued
Entity
% held by the 
Group
Principal activity
East Wick and Sweetwater Projects (Phase 2) Ltd(iv)
50
Infrastructure Concession 
East Wick and Sweetwater Projects (Phase 3) Ltd(iv)
50
Infrastructure Concession 
East Wick and Sweetwater Projects (Phase 4) Ltd(iv)
50
Infrastructure Concession 
East Wick and Sweetwater Projects (Phase 5) Ltd(iv)
50
Infrastructure Concession 
East Wick and Sweetwater Projects (Phase 7A) Ltd(iv)
50
Infrastructure Concession 
East Wick and Sweetwater Projects (Phase 7) Ltd(iv)
50
Infrastructure Concession 
East Wick and Sweetwater Finance (Holdings) Ltd(iv)
50
Investment Holding Company 
East Wick and Sweetwater Projects (Finance) Ltd(iv)
50
Infrastructure Concession 
Gwynt y Môr OFTO Holdings Ltd(ii)(iv)
60
Investment Holding Company 
Gwynt y Môr OFTO Intermediate Ltd(ii)(iv)
60
Infrastructure Concession 
Gwynt y Môr OFTO plc(ii)(iv)
60
Infrastructure Concession 
Humber Gateway OFTO Holdings Ltd(iv)
20
Investment Holding Company 
Humber Gateway OFTO Intermediate Ltd(iv)
20
Infrastructure Concession
Humber Gateway OFTO Ltd(iv)
20
Infrastructure Concession 
South Cambridgeshire Projects LLP(v)
50
Infrastructure Concession 
Thanet OFTO Holdco Ltd(iv)
20
Investment Holding Company 
Thanet OFTO Intermediate Ltd(iv)
20
Infrastructure Concession 
Thanet OFTO Ltd(iv)
20
Infrastructure Concession 
Connect Plus House, St Albans Road, South Mimms, Hertfordshire EN6 3NP
Connect Plus (M25) Holdings Ltd(iii)(iv)
15
Investment Holding Company
Connect Plus (M25) Intermediate Ltd(iii)(iv)
15
Infrastructure Concession
Connect Plus (M25) Issuer plc(iii)(iv)
15
Infrastructure Concession
Connect Plus (M25) Ltd(iii)(iv)
15
Infrastructure Concession
Maxim 7, Maxim Office Park, Parklands Avenue, Eurocentral, Holytown ML1 4WQ
Holyrood Holdings Ltd 
20
Investment Holding Company 
Holyrood Student Accommodation Holdings Ltd 
20
Infrastructure Concession
Holyrood Student Accommodation Intermediate Ltd 
20
Infrastructure Concession
Holyrood Student Accommodation plc
20
Infrastructure Concession
Holyrood Student Accommodation SPV Ltd 
20
Infrastructure Concession
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

272
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
Entity
% held by the 
Group
Principal activity
Westminster House, Crompton Way, Segensworth West, Fareham, Hampshire PO15 5SS 
Pevensey Coastal Defence Ltd 
25
Infrastructure Concession
C/O Pario Ltd, 18 Riversway Business Village, Navigation Way, Preston PR2 2YP 
Consort Healthcare (Birmingham) Funding plc
40
Infrastructure Concession 
Consort Healthcare (Birmingham) Holdings Ltd
40
Investment Holding Company 
Consort Healthcare (Birmingham) Intermediate Ltd
40
Infrastructure Concession 
Consort Healthcare (Birmingham) Ltd
40
Infrastructure Concession 
9 Amberside House Wood Lane, Paradise Industrial Estate, Hemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire, 
England HP2 4TP
Pebblehall Bio Power Ltd 
29.2
Investment Holding Company
Urban Electric Networks Ltd
25
Infrastructure Concession
Welland Bio Power Ltd 
29
Infrastructure Concession
Notes
(i) 
Held directly by Balfour Beatty plc.
(ii) 
Due to the shareholders’ agreement between Balfour Beatty and the other shareholders requiring unanimity of agreement in 
respect of significant matters related to the financial and operating policies of the company, the Directors consider that the Group 
does not control the company and it has been accounted as a joint venture. 
(iii) 
The Group owned a 37.5% partnership interest in BBDE Orbital Holdings LLP at 31 December 2022. Connect Plus (M25) Holdings 
Ltd and its subsidiaries are 40% owned by BBDE Orbital Holdings LLP.
(iv) 
31 March year end. 
(v) 
Partnership interests held.
Joint ventures incorporated outside the United Kingdom
Entity
% held by the 
Group
Principal activity
Bermuda
Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton HM 11
CP Bay Carry A LP(iii)
20
Infrastructure Concession
CP Bay Carry B LP(iii)
20
Infrastructure Concession 
British Virgin Islands
Vistra Corporate Services Centre, Wickhams Cay II Road Town, Tortola VG1110
Gammon Asia Ltd 
50
Management Company
Gammon Construction Holdings Ltd
50
Investment Holding Company
Canada
Taylor McCaffrey LLP, 900-400 St. Mary Avenue, Winnipeg, MB, R3C 4K5
CWH Facilities Management,LP(iii)
50
Infrastructure Concession 
CWH FM GP Inc
50
Infrastructure Investment 
CWH Design – Build GP(iii)
50
Infrastructure Investment
China
Hong Kong Avenida da Praia Grande, n°429, 25° andar D, em Macau 
BBE&M (Macau) Ltd
50
Electrical and Mechanical 
Contracting
Gammon Building Construction (Macau) Ltd
50
Building Construction
No. 457, Shatian Section, Ganggang Avenue, Shatian Town, Dongguan City, Guangdong Province
Dongguan Pristine Metal Works Ltd
50
Manufacturing Services
25th Floor, Jardine House, 1 Connaught Place, Central, Hong Kong
Sanfield-Gammon Construction JV Company Ltd
50
Construction Services
22/F, Tower 1, The Quayside, 77 Hoi Bun Road, Kwun Tong, Kowloon, Hong Kong
AsiaBuild Ltd
50
Dormant
Balfour Beatty E&M Ltd
50
Dormant
Digital G Ltd
50
Technology and Innovation
Entasis Ltd
50
General Contractor
Gammon Building Construction Ltd
50
Building Construction
Gammon Capital Ltd
50
Dormant
Gammon Capital Management Ltd 
50
Dormant
44 Details of related undertakings of Balfour Beatty plc as at 31 December 2024 continued
Joint ventures incorporated in the United Kingdom continued
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

273
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Entity
% held by the 
Group
Principal activity
Gammon China Ltd
50
Investment Holding Company
Gammon Concrete Services Ltd
50
Dormant
Gammon Construction (China) Ltd
50
Building Construction
Gammon Construction (Vietnam) Holdings Ltd
50
Construction and Project 
Management
Gammon Construction Consultants (Shenzhen) Ltd
50
Gammon Construction Ltd(ii)
50
Engineering and Construction
Gammon E&M Ltd
50
Engineering Services
Gammon Engineering & Construction Company Ltd
50
Engineering and Construction
Gammon Engineering Ltd
50
Dormant
Gammon Finance Ltd 
50
Finance and Investment 
Gammon Interiors Ltd 
50
Dormant
Gammon Management Services Ltd
50
Construction Management 
Services
Gammon Plant Ltd
50
Plant and Equipment Hire and 
Maintenance 
Gold Tactics Investment Ltd
50
Dormant
Into G Ltd
50
Interior Fit-Out and Contracting
Lambeth Associates Ltd 
50
Management and Consultancy 
Services 
Pristine Metal Works Ltd 
50
Investment Holding Company
7/F & 8/F Tower A, Sunhope E Metro, 7018 Caitian Road, Futian District, Shenzhen, People’s 
Republic of China
Gammon Construction Consultants (Shenzhen) Ltd
50
Support Services
Ireland
3 Dublin Landings, North Wall Quay, Dublin 1, D01 C4E0
Balfour Beatty CLG Ltd 
50
Support Services 
C/O Pario SPV Management Limited, Suite 54, Morrison Chambers, 32 Nassau St, Dublin 2, 
D02 AP29 
Healthcare Centres PPP Holdings Ltd
40
Investment Holding Company
Entity
% held by the 
Group
Principal activity
Healthcare Centres PPP Ltd 
40
Infrastructure Concession
Malaysia
Unit B-9-7, Level 9, Capital 2, Oasis Square, No.2 Jalan PJU 1A/7A, Ara Damansara, 47301 
Petaling Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia
Gammon Sdn Bhd 
50
Dormant
Pesaka Gammon Construction Sdn Bhd 
15
Dormant
Philippines
G/F Makati Stock Exchange, Ayala Avenue, Makati City, Metro Manila, Philippines
Gammon Philippines, Inc.
40
General Construction
MG Construction Ventures Holdings, Inc.
33
Property Investment
Singapore
239 Alexandra Road, 159930
Digital G (Singapore) Pte. Ltd
50
Equipment Services
Gammon Construction and Engineering Pte. Ltd
50
Construction Services
Gammon Construction Holdings (S) Pte. Ltd
50
Investment Holding Company 
Gammon Pte. Ltd
50
Engineering and Construction
Lambeth Associates Design & Consultancy Pte Ltd
50
Management and Consultancy 
Services 
Thailand 
21st Floor, Times Square Building, 246 Sukhumvit Road, Klongtoey Sub-District, Klongtoey 
District, Bangkok 10110, Thailand
Gammon (Thailand) Ltd
49
Dormant
23rd Floor, Times Square Building, 246 Sukhumvit Road, Klongtoey Sub-District, Klongtoey 
District, Bangkok 10110, Thailand
Gammon Construction (Thailand) Ltd
24.5
Dormant
Thai Gammon Ltd
24.5
Dormant
United States
Corporation Service Company, d/b/a CSC-Lawyers, Incorporating Service Company, 211 E. 7th 
Street, Suite 620, Austin TX 78701-3218
Northside Campus Partners, LP(iii)
5
Infrastructure Concession
Northside Campus Partners 2,LP(iii)
5
Infrastructure Investment 
Northside Campus Partners 3, LP(i)(iii)
5
Infrastructure Concession 
Northside Campus Partners 4, LP(i)(iii)
5
Infrastructure Concession 
44 Details of related undertakings of Balfour Beatty plc as at 31 December 2024 continued
Joint ventures incorporated outside the United Kingdom continued
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

274
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTINUED
Entity
% held by the 
Group
Principal activity
Northside Campus General Partner, LLC
50
Infrastructure Concession 
Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE19808 
BBC – ApexOne Carolina Cove, LLC
50
Infrastructure Investment 
BBC – ApexOne Chenal Pointe, LLC
50
Infrastructure Investment 
BBC – ApexOne Landings, LLC
50
Infrastructure Investment 
BBC – ApexOne Lexington, LLC
50
Infrastructure Investment 
BBC – ApexOne Paces Brook, LLC
50
Infrastructure Investment 
BBC – ApexOne Retreat, LLC
50
Infrastructure Investment 
BBC – ApexOne San Mateo, LLC
50
Infrastructure Investment 
BBC – ApexOne Southwind, LLC
50
Infrastructure Investment 
BBC Army Integrated, LLC
10
Infrastructure Investment 
Carolina Cove (Wilmington) Owner, LLC
50
Infrastructure Investment 
Chenal Pointe (Little Rock) Owner, LLC
50
Infrastructure Investment 
LAX Integrated Express Solutions Holdco, LLC
27
Infrastructure Concession 
LAX Integrated Express Solutions, LLC
27
Infrastructure Concession 
Landings (Jacksonville) Owner, LLC
50
Infrastructure Investment 
Lexington (Ridgeland) Owner, LLC
50
Infrastructure Investment 
Paces Brook (Columbia) Owner, LLC
50
Infrastructure Investment 
San Mateo (Kissimmee) Owner, LLC
50
Infrastructure Investment 
Southwind (Memphis) Owner, LLC
20
Infrastructure Investment 
Southwind (Memphis) Holdings, LLC
20
Infrastructure Investment 
Swiftsure Housing Partners, LLC
23
Infrastructure Concession
View SA Holding Company LP(i)(iii)
87
Infrastructure Investment
View SA LLC(i)
87
Infrastructure Investment
Corporation Service Company, 1900 W Littleton Blvd., Littleton, CO 80120 
Denver Transit Constructors LLC
30
Design and Construction
Denver Transit Operators LLC
50
Operations and Maintenance
Denver Transit Systems LLC
50
Design and Construction 
Entity
% held by the 
Group
Principal activity
National Registered Agents, Inc. 1209 Orange Street Wilmington DE 19801 United States
CHC RES 20 – Mt. Laurel LLC
31
Infrastructure Investment
Mt. Laurel CHC Equity LLC
31
Infrastructure Investment
CHC Mt. Laurel LLC
31
Infrastructure Investment
Vietnam
5th Floor, Gemadept Tower, 2Bis–4–6 Le Thanh Ton Street, Ben Nghe Ward, District 1, Ho Chi 
Minh City, Vietnam
Gammon Construction Vietnam Co. Ltd
50
Building Construction and 
Management Services
Notes
(i) 
Due to the shareholders’ agreement between Balfour Beatty and the other shareholders requiring unanimity of agreement in 
respect of significant matters related to the financial and operating policies of the company, the Directors consider that the Group 
does not control the company and it has been accounted for as a joint venture. 
(ii) 
 Preference shares and/or deferred shares also held.
(iii) 
 Partnership interest held.
44 Details of related undertakings of Balfour Beatty plc as at 31 December 2024 continued
Joint ventures incorporated outside the United Kingdom continued
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

275
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Entity
% held by the 
Group
Principal activity
United Kingdom
3 Sidings Court, White Rose Way, Doncaster, England, DN4 5NU
UBB Waste (Essex) Ltd
30
Dormant
United States
Corporation Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington DE 19808
ACC Group Housing, LLC(i)
100
Infrastructure Concession
AETC Housing LP(i)(ii)
100
Infrastructure Concession
AMC West Housing LP(i)(ii)
100
Infrastructure Concession
Carlisle/Picatinny Family Housing LP(ii) 
10
Infrastructure Concession
FDWR Parent LLC
10
Infrastructure Concession
Fort Bliss/White Sands Missile Range Housing LP(ii)
10
Infrastructure Concession
Fort Carson Family Housing LLC
10
Infrastructure Concession
Fort Detrick/Walter Reed Army Medical Center Housing 
LLC(i)
100
Infrastructure Concession
Fort Eustis/Fort Story Housing LLC
10
Infrastructure Concession
Fort Eisenhower Housing LLC
10
Infrastructure Concession
Fort Hamilton Housing LLC
10
Infrastructure Concession
Fort Jackson Housing LLC
10
Infrastructure Concession
Lackland Family Housing, LLC(i)
100
Infrastructure Concession
Leonard Wood Family Communities, LLC
10
Infrastructure Concession
Northeast Housing LLC
10
Infrastructure Concession
Northern Group Housing, LLC(i)
100
Infrastructure Concession
Southeast Housing LLC(i)
100
Infrastructure Concession
Stewart Hunter Housing LLC
10
Infrastructure Concession
Vandenberg Housing LP(i)(ii)
90
Infrastructure Concession
Western Group Housing, LP(i)(ii)
100
Infrastructure Concession
West Point Housing LLC
10
Infrastructure Concession
Notes
(i) 
The Group evaluated each of its interests in the military housing projects to determine if the associated entities should be 
consolidated. This analysis included, but was not limited to, identifying the activities that most significantly impact an entity’s 
economic performance, which party or parties control those activities and the risks associated with these entities. Decisionmaking power over key facets of the contracts were evaluated when determining which party or parties had control over the 
activities that most significantly impact a project’s economics. Based on this review, the Directors consider that the Group does 
not have the power to direct these activities and does not control or jointly control them and therefore the entities have been 
accounted for as associated undertakings. 
(ii) 
Partnership interests held.
44 Details of related undertakings of Balfour Beatty plc as at 31 December 2024 continued
Joint ventures incorporated outside the United Kingdom continued
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

276
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
UNAUDITED GROUP FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY
2024
£m
2023
£m
2022
£m
2021
£m
2020
£m
Income
Revenue including share of joint ventures and associates
10,015
9,595
8,931
8,263
8,593
Share of revenue of joint ventures and associates
(1,781)
(1,602)
(1,302)
(1,078)
(1,273)
Group revenue
8,234
7,993
7,629
7,185
7,320
Underlying profit from operations
248
228
279
197
51
Underlying net finance income/(costs)
41
33
12
(10)
(15)
Underlying profit before taxation
289
261
291
187
36
Amortisation of acquired intangible assets
(4)
(5)
(6)
(5)
(6)
Other non-underlying items
(71)
(12)
2
(95)
18
Profit before taxation
214
244
287
87
48
Taxation
(36)
(50)
–
52
(18)
Profit for the year
178
194
287
139
30
Profit for the year attributable to equity holders
178
197
288
140
30
(Loss)/profit for the year attributable to non-controlling interests
–
(3)
(1)
(1)
–
Profit for the year
178
194
287
139
30
Capital employed
Equity holders’ equity
1,121
1,198
1,378
1,369
1,336
Net non-recourse borrowings – infrastructure concessions
335
264
242
243
317
Net cash – other
(943)
(842)
(815)
(790)
(581)
513
620
805
822
1,072
2024
Pence
2023
Pence
2022
Pence
2021
Pence
2020
Pence
Statistics
Underlying earnings per ordinary share*
43.6
37.3
47.5
29.7
3.7
Basic earnings per ordinary share
34.2
35.3
46.9
21.3
4.4
Diluted earnings per ordinary share
33.7
34.8
46.3
21.1
4.4
Proposed dividends per ordinary share
12.5
11.5
10.5
9.0
1.5
Underlying profit from operations before net finance income/(costs) including share of joint ventures and associates as a percentage of 
revenue including share of joint ventures and associates
2.5%
2.4%
3.1%
2.4%
0.6%
Note
* Underlying earnings per ordinary share have been disclosed to give a clearer understanding of the Group’s underlying trading performance.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

277
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Financial calendar 2025
8 May
Annual General Meeting
2 July
Final 2024 dividend payable
13 August*
2025 half year results announcement
3 December*
Interim 2025 dividend payable
4 December*
Trading update 
* Dates are subject to change
Registrar
Balfour Beatty’s share register is maintained by Equiniti, the Company’s Registrar. All administrative 
enquiries relating to shareholdings and requests to receive corporate documents by email should, 
in the first instance, be directed to Equiniti, clearly stating your registered address and, if available, 
your shareholder reference number. 
Please visit their website www.shareview.co.uk.
Telephone: +44 (0) 371 384 2703. Calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by 
provider. Calls outside the United Kingdom are charged at the applicable international rate. Lines are 
open between 8.30 am to 5.30 pm, Monday to Friday excluding public holidays in England and Wales.
Share certificates
In order to sell or transfer your shares, you must ensure that you have a valid share certificate. 
This must be in the name of Balfour Beatty plc. If you lose or misplace your share certificate, you can 
contact Equiniti customer experience centre and request a replacement certificate. Equiniti will then 
issue a letter of indemnity to you which you will need to sign and return for a new certificate to be 
produced. There is a fee charged for this service which includes an administration charge and a 
counter signature fee (the counter signature fee can vary depending on the value of the shareholding). 
Dividends and dividend reinvestment plan
Dividends may be paid directly into your bank or building society account through the Bankers 
Automated Clearing System (BACS). Equiniti can provide a dividend mandate form. A Dividend 
Reinvestment Plan (DRIP) is offered which allows holders of shares to reinvest their cash dividends 
in the Company’s shares through a specially arranged share dealing service. Full details of the DRIP 
and its charges, together with mandate forms, are available at: www.shareview.co.uk.
International payment service
Shareholders outside the UK may elect to receive dividends directly into their overseas bank account, 
or by currency draft, instead of by sterling cheque. For further information, contact the Company’s 
Registrar, Equiniti using the contact details above. 
Electronic shareholder communications
The Company’s website www.balfourbeatty.com provides a range of information about the Company, 
our people and businesses and our policies on corporate governance, sustainability and health and 
safety. The website should be regarded as your first point of reference for information on any of these 
matters. The share price can also be found there. You can create a Shareview account, through which 
you will be able to access the full range of online shareholder services, including the ability to: view 
your holdings and indicative share price and valuation; view movements on your holdings and your 
dividend payment history; register a dividend mandate to have your dividends paid directly into your 
bank account; change your registered address; sign up to receive e-communications to access the 
online proxy voting facility; and download and print shareholder forms. Shareview is easy to use. 
Please visit www.shareview.co.uk. 
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

278
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Unsolicited telephone calls 
In the past, some of our shareholders have received unsolicited telephone calls or 
correspondence concerning investment matters from organisations or persons claiming or 
implying that they have some connection with the Company. We advise our shareholders to 
be wary of any unsolicited telephone calls, advice or correspondence concerning investment 
matters from organisations or persons claiming or implying that they have some connection with 
the Company. These are typically from overseas-based ‘brokers’ who target UK shareholders 
offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high-risk shares in UK or overseas 
investments. Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy 
shares at a discount or offers of free annual and/or other reports on the Company. 
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: 
 
@ Always ensure the firm is authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), is on the FCA 
Register and is allowed to provide financial advice before handing over your money. You can 
check if a firm is on the FCA’s Register via register.fca.org.uk. 
 
@ Ask the caller for their name and telephone number and inform them you will call them back. 
Then check their identity to ensure that they are from the firm they say they are from by 
calling the firm using the contact number listed on the FCA Register. If there are no contact 
details on the FCA Register or you are told that they are out of date, or if you have any other 
doubts, call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768 (freephone) or 0300 500 8082 
from the UK, or +44 207 066 1000 from abroad. Calls using next generation text relay, 
please call (18001) 0207 066 1000. 
 
@ If you are approached about a share scam, please visit the FCA’s ScamSmart website at 
www.fca.org.uk/scamsmart where you can access information about the various types of 
scam, including share and boiler room fraud, see the FCA’s Warning List and reports on firms 
about whom consumers have expressed concerns. Alternatively, you can call the FCA 
Consumer Helpline (see above). If you use an unauthorised firm to buy or sell shares or other 
investments, you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or be eligible to 
receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme if things go wrong. 
 
@ You should also report any approach to Action Fraud, which is the UK’s national fraud 
reporting centre, at www.actionfraud.police.uk, or by calling 0300 123 2040. 
American Depository Receipts (ADRs)
An American Depository Receipt (ADR) is a negotiable instrument issued by a depositary bank that 
evidences ownership of shares in a corporation organised outside the US. Each ADR represents a 
specific number of underlying shares in the non-US company, on deposit with a custodian in the 
applicable home market. 
ADRs are generally treated as US domestic securities. They are quoted and traded in US Dollars 
and are subject to the trading and settlement procedures of the market in which they trade. 
Balfour Beatty’s ADR programme details
Symbol: BAFYY
ADR: Ordinary Share Ratio: 1:2
CUSIP: 05845R306
ADR ISIN: US05845R3066
Underlying ISIN: GB0000961622
Depositary Bank: JP Morgan Chase Bank N.A.
Country: United Kingdom
Balfour Beatty’s ADR Depositary Bank is JP Morgan Chase N.A. For all ADR-related enquiries, 
investors can contact JP Morgan via telephone, in writing or email as follows:
Telephone:
Toll free within the United States at: 1-800-990-1135 or locally at 651-306-4383.
JP Morgan representatives are available from 7.00 am to 7.00 pm Central Time, Monday to Friday.
In writing:
Mail
JP Morgan Shareholder Services
P.O Box 64504
St. Paul, Minnesota 55164-0504
Overnight Mail
JP Morgan Chase Bank N.A.
1110 Centre Pointe Curve, Suite 101
Mendota Heights MN 55120-4100
Contact Online
jpmorgan.adr@eq-us.com
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CONTINUED
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

279
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Gifting shares to your family or to charity
To transfer shares to another member of your family as a gift, please ask the Registrar for a Balfour 
Beatty gift transfer form. Alternatively, if you only have a small number of shares whose value makes 
it uneconomic to sell them, you may wish to consider donating them to the share donation charity 
ShareGift (registered charity no. 1052686), whose work Balfour Beatty supports. Any shares you 
donate to ShareGift will be aggregated and sold when possible, and the proceeds will be donated to 
a wide range of other UK charities. Since ShareGift was launched, over £47m has been given to more 
than 3,650 charities. The relevant share transfer form may be obtained from the Registrar. For more 
information visit www.sharegift.org.
Share dealing services
In addition to share dealing services provided by UK banks and brokers, Equiniti provide a telephone 
and online share dealing service for UK resident shareholders. To use this service, telephone 023456 
037037 from within the UK. Calls are charged at the standard geographic rate and will vary by provider. 
Lines are open Monday to Friday 8.00 am to 4.30 pm, UK time, excluding public holidays in England 
and Wales. Alternatively, you can log on to www.equiniti.com. Equiniti Limited is authorised and 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
London Stock Exchange Codes
The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List (SEDOL) code is: 0096162. 
The London Stock Exchange ticker code is: BBY.
Capital gains tax (CGT)
For CGT purposes the market value on 31 March 1982 of Balfour Beatty plc’s ordinary shares of 50p 
each was 267.6p per share. This has been adjusted for the 1 for 5 rights issue in June 1992, the 2 for 
11 rights issue in September 1996 and the 3 for 7 rights issue in October 2009 and assumes that all 
rights have been taken up. 
Consolidated tax vouchers
Balfour Beatty issues a consolidated tax voucher annually to all shareholders who have their dividends 
paid direct to their bank accounts. If you would prefer to receive a tax voucher at each dividend 
payment date rather than annually, please contact the Registrar. A copy of the consolidated tax 
voucher may be downloaded from the Share Portal at www.shareview.co.uk.
Enquiries
Enquiries relating to Balfour Beatty’s results, business and financial position should be made in writing 
to the Corporate Communications Department at the address shown below or by email to 
info@balfourbeatty.com. 
Balfour Beatty Registered Office: 5 Churchill Place, Canary Wharf, London E14 5HU
Registered in England and Wales, registered number 395826 
Forward-looking statements
This report, including information included or incorporated by reference in it, may include statements 
that are or may be forward-looking statements, beliefs or opinions, including statements with respect 
to Balfour Beatty’s business, financial condition, operations and prospects. These forward-looking 
statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology or the negative thereof such 
as “expects” or “does not expect”, “anticipates” or “does not anticipate”, “targets”, “aims”, “continues”, 
“is subject to”, “assumes”, “budget”, “scheduled”, “estimates”, “risks”, “positioned”, “forecasts” 
“intends”, “hopes”, “believes” or variations of such words or comparable terminology and phrases or 
statements that certain actions, events or results “may”, “could”, “should”, “shall”, “would”, “might” 
or “will” be taken, occur or be achieved. Such statements are qualified in their entirety by the inherent 
risks and uncertainties surrounding future expectations. Forward-looking statements are not based on 
historical facts, but rather on current predictions, expectations, beliefs, opinions, plans, objectives, 
goals, intentions and projections about future events, results of operations, prospects, financial 
condition and discussions of strategy. 
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties 
because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future. 
These events and circumstances include changes in the global, political, economic, business, competitive, 
market and regulatory forces, future exchange and interest rates, changes in tax rates, future business 
combinations or disposals, and any epidemic, pandemic or disease outbreak. If any one or more of 
these risks or uncertainties materialises or if any one or more of the assumptions prove incorrect, 
actual results may differ materially from those expected, estimated or projected. Such forward-looking 
statements should therefore be construed in the light of such factors. As a result, you are cautioned 
not to place any undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. 
No representation or warranty is made that any of these statements or forecasts will come to pass 
or that any forecast results will be achieved, and projections are not guarantees of future performance. 
Forward-looking statements speak only as at the date of this report and, other than in accordance with 
its legal or regulatory obligations, Balfour Beatty expressly disclaims any obligations or undertaking to 
update, or revise, any forward-looking statements in this report. 
No statement in this report is intended as a profit forecast or profit estimate and no statement in this 
presentation should be interpreted to mean that Balfour Beatty’s earnings per share for the current or 
future financial years would necessarily match or exceed the historical published earnings per share 
for Balfour Beatty.
This report does not constitute or form part of any offer or invitation to sell or issue, or any solicitation 
of any offer to purchase or subscribe for any securities. The making of this presentation does not 
constitute any advice or recommendation regarding any securities.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

280
Balfour Beatty plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2024
SCAN TO VIEW THE ONLINE 
SUMMARY REPORT 
MORE INFORMATION
Online annual report
For a summary of our 2024 Annual Report and 
Accounts visit:
ar24.balfourbeatty.com
Investor website
For more information about investor 
relations visit:
balfourbeatty.com/investors
SCAN TO VIEW 
BALFOUR BEATTY’S WEBSITE
Follow us on
X
twitter.com/balfourbeatty
LinkedIn
linkedin.com/company/balfour-beatty-plc
Facebook
facebook.com/balfourbeatty
YouTube
youtube.com/BalfourBeattyPlc
Instagram
instagram.com/balfourbeatty
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty plc’s commitment to environmental issues is reflected 
in this Annual Report, which has been printed on Symbol Freelife Satin 
and Arena Smooth Extra White, an FSC® certified material.
This document was printed by Park Communications using its 
environmental print technology, which minimises the impact of 
printing on the environment, with 99% of dry waste diverted from 
landfill. Both the printer and the paper mill are registered to ISO 14001.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Balfour Beatty
5 Churchill Place
Canary Wharf
London E14 5HU
Telephone: +44(0) 20 7216 6800

www.balfourbeatty.com
Balfour Beatty is a registered trademark of Balfour Beatty plc