Bunzl plc 
Sustainability Report 2024
RESOURCEFUL AND 
RESILIENT
SOLUTIONS FOR 
A BETTER WORLD

--- PAGE BREAK ---

SOLUTIONS FOR A 
BETTER WORLD
2024 was marked by persistent 
geopolitical instability, economic 
challenges and extreme weather 
events. In such times, companies 
must develop resilient business 
models, effectively manage supply 
chain risks and remain adaptable 
in rapidly changing environments. 
To minimise our impact on the world around us, 
maintain resilience and support our customers 
to meet their objectives, we have continued to 
integrate sustainability into our operations and 
across our value chain at Bunzl. We are pleased 
to have made good progress over the last five 
years and the subject is firmly embedded in what 
we do and how we operate. This year our 
businesses have continued to reduce carbon 
emissions, address social inequalities, and drive 
the shift towards a more circular economy. 
While the sustainability efforts of our operating 
companies are tailored to the specific challenges 
they and their customers face, reflecting the 
unique opportunities and obstacles in their 
regions and markets, it is the collective endeavour 
of all our businesses that enables us to achieve 
our Group wide sustainability goals. 
Although the sustainability efforts and strategies 
of our regions and individual operating companies 
may differ, they all feature (and in most cases are 
structured around) the five key themes contained 
in our Group sustainability strategy. 
JAMES PITCHER
Group Head of Sustainability
2022
2023
2024
2021
2020
2019
• Central and regional sustainability 
leads first appointed
• First material footprinting tool 
launched
• New targets for key themes 
launched at Capital Markets Day
• Near term climate change targets 
approved by SBTi
• Double materiality 
assessment completed
• Net zero transition plan 
implemented
• First materiality assessment 
completed
• New strategy and governance 
structure launched
• Climate scenarios assessed, scope 3 emissions 
calculated
• Board Sustainability Committee 
established, TCFD and SASB reporting
50
sustainability 
experts 
employed across 
the Group
18%
reduction 
in absolute 
emissions1 
66%
increase in 
supplier 
assessments1 
26%
increase 
in carbon 
efficiency1
89%
high risk spend 
assessed3
c.45%
increase in 
emerging 
sustainable 
own brand 
product sales2
11%
increase 
in women 
in senior 
leadership 
positions1
c.30%
increase in 
emerging 
sustainable 
own brand 
product SKUs2
DELIVERING A MORE SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS
1. Since 2019.
2. Since 2023, emerging sustainable brands shown on page 27 of the Annual Report 2024.
3. In total at end of 2024.
BUNZL Sustainability Report 2024
02

--- PAGE BREAK ---

MATERIAL 
ISSUES
We recognise that stakeholders 
and policymakers are increasingly 
demanding greater transparency in 
how companies manage sustainability 
opportunities and risks across their 
value chains. We have worked to 
understand our stakeholders’ 
opinions and identify the material 
issues over the last few years.
Following our first materiality assessment in 2020, we 
have conducted two further exercises to expand and 
focus on different components (for example, financial 
risks and opportunities). We have sought insights on 
the potentially material impacts, risks and 
opportunities from stakeholders across our value 
chain, including our largest suppliers of key 
commodities (for example, paper and pulp, plastics, 
and chemicals), major customers from all our 
business areas, key investors and internal 
stakeholders, such as members of the Bunzl finance, 
procurement, operations and sales teams. The 
methodology and approach for our most recent 
double materiality assessment can be viewed on 
page 204 of the Annual Report 2024.
Our assessments have revealed that the themes 
that are the most important to our stakeholders 
have been consistent across the years, with climate 
change and our efforts to lead the transition to a 
more circular economy being the top priorities (see 
following table). Our latest update performed in 2024 
focused on our businesses in Europe to help prepare 
for new reporting requirements, while enabling us to 
identify any emerging issues we need to address. 
Material 
issue
CLIMATE CHANGE
CIRCULAR ECONOMY
Positive/
negative
Positive
Negative
Positive
Negative
Why this is 
material
Bunzl aims to minimise 
product-based 
emissions by offering 
low carbon solutions 
across our product 
range and align with 
science-based targets 
to achieve a zero 
emission global 
economy. Internally, 
Bunzl seeks to invest 
in energy efficiency 
technology and 
renewable energy 
supply in our own 
operations.
Climate change induced 
weather events can also 
disrupt our supply 
chain and operations, 
impeding our ability to 
meet customer 
requirements. 
Increased carbon 
emissions from our 
operations and supply 
chain can hinder our 
contribution to fight 
climate change.
Bunzl can play an active 
role in effectively 
transitioning products 
to alternative materials 
that align with 
customer targets and 
legislative requirements 
and supporting 
customers with 
end-to-end reusable 
packaging systems 
where more reusable 
materials replace single 
use products.
The increased demand 
for circular economy 
friendly products and 
growing stringent 
environmental 
regulations on 
products or service 
presents potential risks 
if Bunzl is not able to 
transition customers 
to products suited to a 
more circular economy.
Timeframe
Long term
Medium term
Long term
Medium term
Short term
Long term
Medium term
Short term
Long term
Medium term
Short term
Impact/ 
Financial 
materiality*
Impact
Financial
Impact
Financial
Impact
Financial
Impact
Financial
Value 
chain 
stage
Upstream
Own operations
Downstream
Upstream
Own operations
Downstream
Bunzl’s key 
theme 
Taking action on climate change 
(see pages 9 to 15)
Providing tailored solutions 
(see pages 19 to 23)
* Impact: Bunzl’s actions affect the environment, society and stakeholders materially regarding this topic.
 
Financial: The topic could have a material influence on the economic decisions of investors or stakeholders, determining a company’s financial health and performance.
BUNZL Sustainability Report 2024
03

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Material 
topic
OWN WORKFORCE
WORKERS IN THE VALUE CHAIN
BUSINESS CONDUCT
Positive/
negative
Positive
Negative
Positive
Negative
Positive
Negative
Why this is 
material
Bunzl aims to attract 
and retain skilled talent 
within the Company 
through training 
programmes, 
promoting job 
opportunities and 
effective succession 
planning, while creating 
and maintaining a 
diverse and inclusive 
workforce.
The lack of work-life 
balance, adequate 
training and best in 
class employee benefits 
may lead to Bunzl being 
less able to recruit and 
retain skilled staff. The 
lack of safety 
management may lead 
to an increase of the 
number of workplace 
injuries in our 
operation.
Bunzl can have a 
positive impact by 
setting appropriate 
targets and the 
application of an 
industry-leading ethical 
assessment and 
auditing programme 
(with quick identification 
and follow-up of 
non-conformances) 
which results in 
improved working 
conditions in the supply 
chain.
Given Bunzl’s wide 
supplier network, there 
is a risk of procuring 
goods and services 
linked to potential 
human rights violations, 
such as exploiting 
marginalised 
communities or child 
labour, which could 
foster harmful practices 
in the supply chain.
By implementing high 
standards of corporate 
governance practices 
aligned with ESG 
metrics, Bunzl can 
satisfy current investors 
and attract potential 
investors. Also, Bunzl 
can raise awareness of 
ethical and integrity 
business principles by 
disseminating high 
quality policies and 
standards, such as an 
anti-bribery and 
corruption, data 
protection and supplier 
code of conduct. 
As a FTSE 100, the lack 
of diversity in the 
Board of directors and 
leadership teams may 
lead to a deterioration 
of investor perception 
of the business’s 
inclusion practices.
Timeframe
Long term
Medium term
Long term
Medium term
Short term
Long term
Medium term
Short term
Long term
Medium term
Short term
Long term
Medium term
Short term
Long term
Medium term
Short term
Impact/ 
Financial 
materiality*
Impact
Impact
Financial
Impact
Financial
Impact
Impact
Impact
Value 
chain 
stage
Own operations
Upstream
Upstream
Own operations
Downstream
Bunzl’s key 
theme 
Investing in a diverse workforce 
(see pages 16 to 18)
Responsible sourcing 
(see pages 6 to 8)
Sustainability governance 
(see page 24)
* Impact: Bunzl’s actions affect the environment, society and stakeholders materially regarding this topic.
 
Financial: The topic could have a material influence on the economic decisions of investors or stakeholders, determining a company’s financial health and performance.
BUNZL Sustainability Report 2024
04

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Our operations 
and distribution
Customers
Tier 2 suppliers 
and beyond
End consumers
Tier 1 suppliers
e.g. raw material producer
OPERATIONAL CONTROL
e.g. large multinational 
paper manufacturer
Our 
material 
ESG themes
e.g. Bunzl operating company
e.g. large facilities 
management company
e.g. individual using 
washroom facility
HIGH INFLUENCE
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING
INVESTING IN A DIVERSE WORKFORCE
PROVIDING TAILORED SOLUTIONS
TAKING ACTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE
BUSINESS CONDUCT
LOW INFLUENCE
Our customers 
Downstream
Our business
Own operations
Our supply chain 
Upstream
MAPPING OUR IMPACT – THE MATERIAL ESG THEMES MAPPED TO OUR VALUE CHAIN 
Bunzl’s global operations connect our distributed, 
flexible supply chain with customers across 
multiple sectors, including grocery, foodservice, 
and safety. 
Our materiality assessments have considered the 
environmental, social and governance (‘ESG’) 
impacts present across the entire value chain. 
We have given appropriate consideration to 
impacted stakeholders at each stage in the value 
chain, even though our role is limited 
to connecting one with another through our 
sourcing, consolidation and distribution activities. 
The illustration below shows the material ESG 
themes that we have high influence or operational 
control over and their position in our value chain.
It is not only our value chain that is complex and 
dynamic, but so too are the solutions we source 
and supply. The goods not-for-resale we provide 
to our customers cover a wide range of target 
sectors, product types and materials and our 
assessments, including stakeholder interviews, 
have recognised that these different products 
and materials have different associated 
sustainability impacts, risks and opportunities.
Wherever we operate, our operating companies’ 
value chains are designed to provide efficiency, 
reliability, and value-added benefits to their 
customers (including sustainability services), 
allowing them to focus on their core business 
operations.
BUNZL Sustainability Report 2024
05

--- PAGE BREAK ---

// SUSTAINABILITY continued
CASE STUDY
FORWARD-THINKING 
ACTION FROM A 
SUPPLY PARTNER 
One of Bunzl’s largest global suppliers, 
Kimberly-Clark, global manufacturer of 
personal care and hygiene products, known 
for brands including Kleenex and Cottonelle, 
has launched its new Forests, Land, and 
Agriculture Policy. This policy underscores the 
company’s dedication to protecting 
biodiversity and reducing the impacts of 
natural forest degradation from its supply 
chain, and supports its ambition to ultimately 
eliminate natural forest fibre from its product 
portfolio. This initiative represents a significant 
shift towards more sustainable practices and 
sets a high standard in the family care sector. 
The policy commits to reducing forest 
degradation, particularly in northern forests 
like Canada’s boreal forest. It also emphasises 
the importance of free, prior, and informed 
consent (‘FPIC’) for Indigenous communities 
and sets consequences for non-compliant 
suppliers, ensuring that deforestation and 
forest degradation are actively addressed.
Our material ESG themes
RESPONSIBLE SOURCING
PROVIDING TAILORED SOLUTIONS
TAKING ACTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE
BUSINESS CONDUCT
OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
Our procurement experts and category 
specialists work with both multinational and local 
direct suppliers to responsibly source a wide 
range of products globally. We take a proactive, 
direct and risk-based approach to ensure that our 
supply chain partners are complying with the high 
ethical standards demanded by our policies. We 
regularly review best practice to ensure that our 
controls are fit for purpose and have completed 
a new supply chain risk assessment this year (see 
page 8 for more details).
We recognise the requirement to develop clear 
and actionable strategies to address the risks and 
opportunities posed by climate change within our 
value chain and have started to collaborate with 
our largest suppliers to set climate change targets 
(see page 9 for more details). Accurate data for 
robust scope 3 emissions reporting will be 
important in the future, but the collection process 
remains difficult. Once readily available, this data 
will allow us to better identify sectors and 
products with high carbon emissions and coupled 
with our key suppliers setting targets, will support 
the transition to a low carbon economy and be 
a key lever on our path to net zero. 
We work with our suppliers to bring innovative 
product solutions to our customers, including 
those well suited to the circular economy. Our 
customers depend on our supply chain 
partnerships to achieve their sustainable 
packaging strategies, improve product circularity 
and increasingly, drive lower emissions across 
the value chain (see pages 11, 12 and 14 for 
more details).
 
Our policy aims to foster more 
responsible sourcing practices and 
create a ripple effect across the 
market, ultimately contributing to 
climate and biodiversity preservation. 
With our ambition to move to ‘Natural 
Forest Fibre Free’ we aim to eliminate 
the use of natural forest fibre, which 
includes old growth and primary 
forests, in all our products beyond 
2030. We’re delighted to work in 
partnership with forward-thinking 
customers like Bunzl and are pleased 
that our industry leading targets help 
them to reduce the ESG impacts 
across their value chain.”
CHRIS WEBER
Associate Director, Sustainable Sourcing 
for Kimberly-Clark
Image copyright: 
Forest Stewardship Council®
BUNZL Sustainability Report 2024
06

--- PAGE BREAK ---

// SUSTAINABILITY continued
Ensuring our suppliers’ adherence to our policies 
can be a challenging task due to the complexity of 
our supply chain, which involves numerous Bunzl 
operating companies and suppliers located at 
various tiers and levels in diverse locations. 
Therefore, we take a risk-based approach to 
responsible sourcing and focus our sustainability 
and responsible sourcing efforts where we have 
most risk and influence; our Tier 1 suppliers. 
With over 15,000 direct suppliers, focusing on 
Tier 1 allows us to make more impactful changes 
within the immediate reach of our businesses. 
We have limited influence over Tier 2 and other 
suppliers further down our supply chains, where 
non-compliance risks are higher. To mitigate these 
risks, we collaborate closely with our Tier 1 direct 
suppliers to monitor and manage compliance at 
this level. Over time, improving the sustainabilityrelated activities in Tier 1 of our value chain will 
set a strong foundation and once robust practices 
are established at this level, we and our supply 
partners can gradually extend our focus to Tier 2 
and beyond.
Upstream transportation activities also form 
an important part of our supply chain, but as this 
activity is managed and operated by third parties 
and our customers’ principal interest is in the 
impact our products and services have from a 
sustainability perspective, this is not an area of 
focus in our strategy. We also have a 
proportionally small amount of spend with 
indirect suppliers who support our operating 
companies’ activities, but this can be classed 
as immaterial.
Responsible sourcing at Bunzl
Global supply chains are complex networks that 
join people, products and data. Policymakers and 
other stakeholders are increasingly calling for 
greater responsibility and transparency in how 
companies manage risks within their supply 
chains and we are proud to have a strong, 
risk-based approach to responsible sourcing 
at Bunzl. 
With almost 50 million people worldwide 
estimated to be living in slavery and nearly 
28 million of those in forced labour situations, 
human rights violations in manufacturing supply 
chains pose a significant risk, necessitating robust 
due diligence and governance systems to mitigate 
issues and address concerns.
We have been taking a risk-based approach 
to auditing in our supply chain for more than 
15 years and have more than tripled the number 
of suppliers we assess compared to 2015. In 2024, 
we increased the proportion of high risk spend 
covered by our assessment and auditing 
programme by 8% to 89%. 
We assessed 1,175 suppliers, and 1,075 of these 
had no critical issues. If our assessments identify 
any zero tolerance issues (for example, wage 
violations or instances of forced labour) we work 
to resolve these quickly through in-depth 
engagement with the supplier. 100 suppliers 
required remediation efforts to bring them up 
to the required standard in 2024 and 81 have 
completed their action plans to date with 11 still 
in progress. If resolution is not possible within 
a reasonable time frame (usually six months) 
then we terminate the relationship. In 2024 we 
terminated contracts with eight suppliers who 
failed to address various issues or make 
enough progress.
Measure
2023
2024
Number of suppliers assessed
1,022
1,175
% of spend in high risk regions that is with assessed and compliant 
suppliers
81%
89%
% of spend related to suppliers in low risk regions, from assessed and 
compliant suppliers in high risk regions and other non-product 
related costs1
c.96%
c.97%
1. Includes freight, duties and FX related costs.
BUNZL Sustainability Report 2024
07

--- PAGE BREAK ---

CASE STUDY
A RISK-BASED APPROACH 
TO RESPONSIBLE 
SOURCING 
To ensure we take account of the most 
material issues in our supply chain, we have 
conducted a new comprehensive risk 
assessment in 2024. In addition to modern 
slavery risks, our new methodology has 
assessed a broader range of ESG issues 
(bribery, environmental, health & safety etc.) 
to ensure alignment with the latest legislation 
and public coverage.
We partnered with supply chain assurance 
expert, LRQA, to complete the project and 
have based our assessment on inherent risk 
data at country and product level to accurately 
predict risk likelihood. 
Our country ESG risk ratings have assessed 
high risk regions using 38 ESG metrics across 
five areas: labour, health & safety, 
environment, business ethics, and 
management systems. Each country receives 
an overall supply chain risk rating, along with 
scores for each pillar and its subcategories, 
reflecting the worst-case scenario without 
risk mitigation.
Product risk, like country risk, evaluates 
sectors based on five key pillars: labour 
practices, health & safety, environmental 
impact, business ethics, and management 
systems. It combines country risk with an 
added focus on The Bureau of International 
Labor Affairs (‘ILAB’) List of Goods Produced 
by Child Labor or Forced Labor, highlighting 
products and industries linked to 
exploitative practices. 
The data for our assessment has come from 
three sources:
1. 
Audit data: Over 20,000 social and 
environmental assessments performed 
across the global supply chain. The data 
from these audits is standardised and 
aggregated by country, sector, province 
or state.
2. 
Public domain data: Data from NGOs and 
multilateral organisations to complement 
audit data, particularly in areas where 
audits might not fully capture specific 
violations like forced labour or in regions 
with limited audit samples.
3. 
EiQ sentinel data: Web-based data points, 
including news reports, public records and 
sanction lists, are used to enrich risk 
information, capturing risk factors at the 
company, product, or country level. New 
data is added monthly to this proprietary 
system offered by LRQA.
Despite expanding the scope of our 
assessment to consider a wider range of ESG 
topics, the top 10 risks associated with our 
supply chain all relate to modern slavery with 
forced labour, child labour, hours of work and 
occupational safety amongst the most 
pertinent issues. Looking at these risks in 
isolation our total number of high risk 
suppliers will remain largely unchanged.
This work and its results reinforce the 
importance of our ethical auditing 
programme led by our Global Supply Chain 
Solutions team based in Shanghai. We are 
pleased to be nearing achievement of the 
responsible sourcing target we set in 2021 
and will be using the results of our new risk 
assessment to design how our responsible 
sourcing programme will be structured from 
2026 onwards once our current KPI has 
been achieved.
BUNZL Sustainability Report 2024
08

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Building a low carbon 
supplier network
The emissions associated with the products 
we supply account for around 80% of our total 
emissions. In 2022, the Science Based Targets 
initiative (‘SBTi’) approved our emissions 
reduction targets as being consistent with levels 
required to meet the goals of the Paris Agreement 
and this included our ambition for 79% of our 
suppliers by emissions to set short term 
reduction targets by the end of 2027. 
Following our communication to key suppliers in 
2023 about our new requirements, we launched 
a new engagement programme with our key 
supply partners in 2024, which allows us to start 
assessing where they are on their carbon 
reduction journeys. We have been working to 
onboard our key supply partners onto the 
software platform we are using to support this 
engagement and have issued our first climate 
change survey. 
The data we have received through our software 
platform and information available on the SBTi 
website shows that 33.4% of suppliers1 by 
emissions currently have science-based carbon 
reduction targets in place. In addition to 
understanding what proportion of our supply 
chain emissions are covered by science-based 
targets, we are using the information we receive 
through our software platform to prioritise 
engagement with our largest suppliers who do 
not currently have targets in place to discuss their 
plans, review their progress and identify 
opportunities to collaborate. 
With our top 100 suppliers accounting for c.64% 
of our emissions we will be taking a top-down 
approach to engagement, as suppliers in this 
group who set new targets will have the most 
beneficial impact on global carbon emissions. 
In 2025, we will continue to use a combination 
of methods for our engagement, including 
face-to-face meetings, webinars and supplier 
engagement events. During 2024, we have 
worked to engage our procurement teams 
across our decentralised organisation and held 
supplier engagement events in Malaysia, China 
and Germany.
We recognise that many companies will face 
challenges in getting their suppliers to set 
science-based carbon targets and we expect 
to confront the same difficulties. The reasons 
given for suppliers not having compliant targets 
during our engagement to date includes lack of 
data and resources for carbon baselining and 
emission calculations, sparse local regulations, 
political opinion, complex legislation and the 
costs associated with decarbonisation initiatives. 
Suppliers citing these challenges (who do not 
have compliant targets) are present throughout 
our programme but most concentrated in our 
tail of c.650 suppliers accounting for c.36% of 
our emissions.
This said, from the population of suppliers 
without compliant targets who answered our 
climate change questionnaire in 2024, c.82% have 
committed that they will set compliant targets or 
upgrade their existing targets to meet a sciencebased definition before our deadline in 2027. If all 
these suppliers meet their commitments, 60% of 
suppliers by emissions would have science-based 
carbon reduction targets in place.
This year, our net zero transition plan has been 
approved by the SBTi and during this process we 
followed the SBTi’s updated requirements for net 
zero validation and have upgraded our scope 3 
target to ensure 80% of our suppliers by 
emissions have compliant targets. This will replace 
our current target and ensure we cover the 
required proportion of emissions. We will bring 
more suppliers into our climate engagement 
programme during 2025.
500
750
The annual emissions from supplier number 500 
in our programme are equivalent to 0.5% 
of our largest supplier’s annual emissions 
and 1.8% of the average of our 
top 20 supplier emissions
The remaining c.650 suppliers account 
for 36% of our emissions
Supplier number
Tonnes CO2e p.a
Our top 100 suppliers account 
for 64% of our emissions
Our top 20 suppliers account 
for 40% of our emissions
91
96
81
86
71
76
61
66
51
56
41
46
31
36
21
6
11
16
1
26
0
50,000
100,000
150,000
200,000
250,000
300,000
350,000
400,000
Supplier emissions in scope of our target
33.4% 
of suppliers1 by emissions 
have science-based carbon 
reduction targets in place
1. Suppliers that are covered by our scope 3 supplier engagement target.
BUNZL Sustainability Report 2024
09

--- PAGE BREAK ---

In 2023, we followed the SBTi’s Net Zero Standard 
to develop our transition plan and are pleased 
that this was formally approved by the SBTi this 
year. We believe that long term net zero targets 
need to be aligned with climate science and that 
achieving net zero represents an opportunity for 
Bunzl to build a more resilient business. Reaching 
net zero represents a significant challenge; we will 
not only need to assess and change our own 
operations but collaborate with hundreds of 
customers to achieve the deep emissions 
reductions. As shown on page 9, we will continue 
to engage our key partners and leverage our 
position in the supply chain to drive change and 
bring other businesses on the journey.
Decarbonisation levers and near 
term carbon roadmap activities
We have identified five decarbonisation levers 
that we will use to reduce both near and long 
term emissions in line with climate science 
to achieve net zero. Our immediate focus is to 
deliver our near term carbon reduction targets 
and continue to take action where we can now. 
In the short term, to remain aligned to our net 
zero transition plan, we focus our efforts on two 
key decarbonisation levers: building a low carbon 
supplier network and more efficient operations. 
In addition to these focus areas, activities and 
projects relating to the other levers are already 
underway and some examples are provided in the 
tables on pages 11 and 12. 
Our material ESG themes
INVESTING IN A DIVERSE WORKFORCE
PROVIDING TAILORED SOLUTIONS
TAKING ACTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE
BUSINESS CONDUCT
OUR BUSINESS
With operations in 32 countries, our extensive 
distribution networks mean we can deliver to 
customers on a local, regional, national and 
international basis, giving them complete 
flexibility. Our one-stop-shop service means we 
aggregate orders from thousands of suppliers 
into single deliveries which reduces transport 
miles and carbon emissions. 
Our role as a distributor means we do not operate 
any energy intensive or highly polluting 
manufacturing facilities and the majority of our 
carbon emissions are in our supply chain. 
However, our direct operations can make an 
important and visible contribution to 
decarbonisation and our businesses continue to 
invest, including in our vehicle routing and 
warehouse management systems and by 
upgrading our existing assets, to reduce 
greenhouse gas emissions (see page 15 for 
examples).
Our dedicated warehouse teams ensure orders 
are picked to a high degree of accuracy and our 
drivers represent Bunzl on a daily basis as the 
main face-to-face contact with our customers. 
The companies within our Group are dedicated to 
developing our people through various methods, 
including formal training programmes, online 
learning opportunities, coaching and mentoring 
and are renowned for fostering inclusive work 
environments, where individuals can excel 
regardless of their background. They also 
understand that diverse and inclusive workplaces 
earn more commitment and deeper trust from 
their people and that is one of the reasons why 
Bunzl has increased its focus on this area over the 
last few years.
Taking action on climate change
2024 was the warmest year on record,1 with rising 
global temperatures driving more extreme 
weather events, such as the devastating flooding 
in Spain, deadly heatwaves in West Africa and 
dangerous hurricanes in North America. With 
the incidences, unpredictability and severity of 
extreme weather events increasing, the financial 
impact to farming, infrastructure, productivity 
and health is projected to be high.
These changes and extreme weather events 
can be attributed to human activity and as they 
become more pronounced in the coming 
decades, without concerted and ambitious action 
from companies and governments, they will 
present significant challenges and impacts to 
our society and environment. With 2024 being 
the first calendar year when the average global 
temperature exceeded its pre-industrial level by 
1.5⁰C2, the limit set in the Paris agreement, there 
remains an urgent need for low carbon solutions, 
a rapid migration away from fossil fuels and more 
climate-focused legislation. 
We recognise the key role that large businesses 
will play in tackling this global challenge and over 
the last three years have worked to implement 
clear, tangible plans for how we plan to tackle 
climate change-related risks and opportunities 
across our operations and supply chains. In 
addition to regularly assessing the long term 
risks climate change presents to the business, 
our operating companies and suppliers have 
continued to deliver against our near term 
science-based carbon reduction targets and 
our absolute emissions have decreased by 18% 
since 2019.
1. www.bbc.co.uk/news/articles/cd7575x8yq5o 
2. https://climate.copernicus.eu/copernicus-2024-first-year-exceed-15degc-above-pre-industrial-level
BUNZL Sustainability Report 2024
10

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Decarbonisation lever
Emission sources addressed
How reduction will be achieved
Overall impact 
on emissions1
Action taken
Emission-free 
transport:
Low and zero carbon 
logistics
• Commercial vehicles
• Company cars
• Upstream transportation 
and distribution
• Downstream transportation 
and distribution
Transition to electric and other zero emission vehicles, prioritising 
logistics partners who have implemented similar levers
High
The transition of smaller commercial vehicles to 
electric alternatives is progressing, with several 
conversions completed across our global 
operations. In 2024, we launched our first electric 
heavy-duty truck at our cleaning & hygiene 
business in Bunzl Canada. With a range of 350 
kilometres on a single battery charge and 
operating on 100% renewable electricity, this 
vehicle is optimised for urban deliveries within the 
Toronto area. This initiative marks a significant step 
in advancing both efficiency and sustainability 
within Bunzl North America’s operations. The 
outcomes of this project, along with other electric 
vehicle initiatives across the Group will provide 
valuable insights to inform future decisions 
regarding our electric vehicle strategy.
Route optimisation, fuel efficiency monitoring software
Low
Prioritising logistics partners who use a higher proportion of low 
emission fuels
Low
Building a low carbon 
supplier network: 
Suppliers setting 
carbon reduction 
targets
• Purchased goods and 
services
80% of suppliers by emissions to set and deliver short term reduction 
targets between (2027 and 2037)
Very High
Ecolab Inc., a global sustainability leader offering 
water, hygiene and infection prevention solutions 
announced in 2024 that its climate targets have 
been approved by the SBTi. The validation 
encompasses Ecolab’s near and long term 
greenhouse gas (‘GHG’) emissions targets and 
bolsters the company’s track record in its journey 
to achieve net zero emissions across its value 
chain. Ecolab Inc. is in the top 10 suppliers by 
emissions for Bunzl and this group represents 31% 
of the emissions in our target boundary. To date, 
62% of suppliers by emissions in the top 10 
(including Ecolab Inc.) have targets formally 
approved by the SBTi and the remainder have all 
pledged to meet our requirements by 2027.
Additional engagement after 2037 with a proportion of suppliers to set 
net zero targets
Very High
Climate conscious 
decision making: 
Providing lower carbon 
solutions for customers
• Purchased goods and 
services
• End of life treatment of sold 
products
Customer engagement, education, data and knowledge sharing on the 
carbon impacts of various products can lead to an increased demand 
for lower emission solutions
Medium
Bunzl Retail Supplies in the UK have worked with 
leading convenience retailer Co-op to roll out new 
shroud coverings for backhaul waste cages across 
its entire store estate. The move will see Co-op 
moving away from single use stretch-wrap plastic 
film typically used for cages which hold shopfloor 
waste, such as packaging and cardboard. The 
reusable shrouds, which have an expected lifespan 
of up to five years, are made from recycled plastic 
and are expected to reduce carbon emissions by 
around 630 tonnes of CO2e each year.
Customers setting net zero targets will cause a shift in the emissions 
associated with a product’s end of life treatment due to increased 
recycling and reuse rates
High
Expected improvements in country level waste management and 
increased recycling rates
Low
1. Very High (>10% of total reduction), High (>5%), Medium (>2.5%), Low <2.5%
BUNZL Sustainability Report 2024
11

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Decarbonisation lever
Emission sources addressed
How reduction will be achieved
Overall impact 
on emissions1
Action taken
Lower carbon 
commodities:
Raw material carbon 
reduction
• Purchased goods and 
services
Long term decarbonisation of the plastics industry through actions, 
such as reuse schemes, mechanically and chemically recycled plastics, 
plastics from biomass and Carbon Capture & Utilisation (‘CCU’) plastics 
Very High
Faerch, one of Bunzl’s packaging suppliers, has 
an integrated recycling facility called Cirrec that 
transforms post-consumer household waste 
rPET from across Europe into new European Food 
Safety Authority (‘EFSA’) food-grade packaging. 
By recycling 3.6 billion food trays annually (soon 
expanding to 5 billion) Faerch diverts millions of 
tonnes of plastic from landfill or incineration, 
significantly reducing emissions associated with 
virgin plastic production. This industrial-scale 
recycling operation helps Faerch’s partners to 
lower their scope 3 carbon footprint. Faerch is also 
accelerating its shift to renewable energy across 
29 locations in 15 countries. Power Purchase 
Agreements (‘PPAs’) are already in place in Poland, 
the UK and Denmark with more underway in Spain, 
Italy, France, Germany and Poland. By 2025, all 
sites are expected to be covered, supporting 
Faerch’s goal of sourcing 100% renewable 
energy by 2030. 
Long-term decarbonisation of the paper industry through actions such 
as: heat pumps to reuse heat, increased pulp from recycled sources, low 
emission fuels, renewable energy
High
Long-term decarbonisation of the textiles industry through actions such 
as: improved materials mix (e.g. recycled and organic fibres), renewable 
energy, reduced fertiliser use, improved manufacturing efficiency
Low
Low carbon business 
and workforce:
More efficient 
operations
• Electricity
• Travel and commuting
Onsite electricity generation from solar panel installation and renewable 
energy procurement
Low
We are committed to reducing the emissions 
linked to our electricity use by prioritising energy 
efficiency projects, transitioning to renewable 
energy and employing new innovative technologies 
(as highlighted in the MultiLine case study on 
page 15). In Australia, we continue to focus on solar 
energy and in 2024, we converted three more sites 
to solar power, raising the total number of 
solar-powered sites to five. Due to these initiatives, 
5% of our electricity consumption in Australia now 
comes from self-generated renewable energy. 
LED lighting and other energy efficiency measures
Low 
Review of business travel practices and reduction in non-essential trips, 
employees to transition towards electric and other zero emission 
vehicles over time, decarbonisation of public transport 
Low
1. Very High (>10% of total reduction), High (>5%), Medium (>2.5%), Low <2.5%
BUNZL Sustainability Report 2024
12

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Bunzl’s emissions breakdown
Assessing climate change scenarios 
and their impact on our business 
As climate risks become an increasingly significant 
factor in business operations and the global 
economy, regulations related to climate risk 
disclosure are emerging. Once voluntary under 
frameworks like the Taskforce on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’), climate risk 
assessments are now mandated by regulations 
such as Companies (Strategic Report) (Climaterelated Financial Disclosure) Regulations 2022, 
the European Union Corporate Sustainability 
Reporting Directive (‘CSRD’), Australia’s ASSB S1 
and S2, and the California Climate Act. 
The Board, Executive Committee and every 
business area and operating company in Bunzl 
identify and document risks in a consistent way 
within the categories of strategic, operational, 
and financial risks. Our process for identifying 
and assessing risks on an ongoing basis is detailed 
on page 66 of the Annual Report 2024. These 
include current and emerging climate‑related risks 
and opportunities and by doing so, we are 
ensuring that climate change is integrated into the 
Group’s overall risk management framework.
In 2024, we have engagement an expert 
consultant to review and enhance our climate risk 
assessment, covering our operations and supply 
chain. As part of this work, the consultant 
validated our approach to assessing the financial 
impacts of climate risks and developed a step by 
step approach that can be updated each year. 
The assessment process consisted of five 
main stages: 
Purchased goods 
and services
80%
Downstream 
transport
1%
Upstream 
transport
5%
Product 
emissions
2%
Operations and 
workforce
3%
End-of-life
9%
1. 
Defining the scope of the risk assessment
We have carried out an assessment of the 
countries that have the greatest climate 
vulnerability and where we have significant 
business or supply chain presence. Based on this, 
we identified 17 countries as priorities for the 
climate risk assessment. 
2. Evaluating and prioritising climate risks 
and opportunities
Desktop research was conducted to analyse 
the 17 prioritised countries based on predefined 
climate risks from frameworks such as the TCFD 
and the Carbon Disclosure Project (‘CDP’). This 
was followed by an internal consultation process 
with Bunzl teams in regions where climate risk 
regulations are becoming more stringent. The 
outcome of this process was the identification of 
seven key transition risks and five physical risks. 
These risks were categorised into regulatory, 
market, technology and physical domains. 
Key transition risks include increased costs due to 
higher and stricter carbon prices, the overall 
impact on the global economy due to economic 
damage from climate change, loss of revenue due 
to higher ESG customer requirements and higher 
costs due to the increased price of raw materials 
such as oil. Physical risks included acute risks 
such as extreme temperatures, floods, cyclones, 
and wildfires, as well as chronic risks related to 
the gradual rise in mean temperatures. 
Each risk was qualitatively assessed based on 
its magnitude and likelihood. The highest priority 
risks identified were ESG customer requirements, 
carbon pricing, the global economic impact of 
climate change, and extreme weather-related 
impacts. In addition to climate risks, two climaterelated opportunities were identified: increased 
revenue through shifting customer preferences 
towards sustainability and the substitution of 
resources with more sustainable alternatives. 
The time horizons for the scenarios were updated 
to short term: 2030, medium term: 2040, and long 
term: 2050.
Total emissions
c.8.2m tCO2e
BUNZL Sustainability Report 2024
13

--- PAGE BREAK ---

efficiency has improved by 26%, and our absolute 
emissions have been reduced by 18%. However, 
our absolute carbon emissions increased by 0.2% 
in 2024 versus 2023, primarily due to the 
emissions reported for the first time from recent 
acquisitions. Additionally, our natural gas 
consumption rose by 4%, driven by higher heating 
demands, which contributed to a 0.7% increase in 
global emissions. Our global electricity 
consumption and associated emissions increased 
by 4%, partly due to the increased charging of 
electricity and hybrid company vehicles on-site. 
In 2024, approximately 2% of our electricity 
consumption was allocated to charging electric 
vehicles (‘EVs’). Nonetheless, we observed a 
notable increase in the adoption of EVs, 
particularly in the UK & Ireland and Continental 
Europe, alongside improvements in energy 
efficiency and a rise in the procurement of 
renewable energy across the Group, from 
25% to 28%.
The transition to EVs has made significant 
progress, particularly with passenger cars, which 
have benefitted from advancements in battery 
technology and charging infrastructure. The 
transition of smaller commercial vehicles to 
electric alternatives is progressing, with 
conversions successfully completed at several 
sites in North America and the UK & Ireland. 
Currently, we operate approximately 30 electric 
commercial vehicles across our fleet. However, 
scaling this transition to larger vehicles continues 
to present several challenges. 
3. 
Selecting climate scenarios and 
timeframes 
In a next step, we have updated the assessment 
of the impact of various climate change scenarios. 
After analysing climate models from the Network 
for Greening the Financial System (‘NGFS’), the 
International Energy Agency (‘IEA’) and the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change 
(‘IPCC’), the NGFS model was again selected for its 
flexibility in assessing both transition and physical 
risks. The three scenarios, Orderly (Net Zero by 
2050), Disorderly (delayed transition), and Hot 
House World (current policies), were chosen 
to reflect various climate trajectories and their 
impact on Bunzl. The ‘orderly’ and ‘disorderly’ 
scenarios align with global warming trajectories 
of 1.5ºC and 2ºC by 2100, respectively, but differ 
in the speed and extent of decarbonisation over 
the next 30 years. Our final scenario (‘hothouse 
world’) assessed the potential impacts of a world 
in which global warming exceeds 3ºC by 2100. Our 
scenarios broadly align with the environmental 
and economic conditions represented in the 
NGFS scenario framework (www.ngfs.net/ 
ngfs-scenarios-portal/explore) and more 
information can be found on page 206 of our 
ESG appendix in the Annual Report 2024. 
4. Evaluating the impact on our business
We have applied the three climate change 
scenarios to the four key risk areas (carbon 
pricing, ESG customer requirements, the global 
economic impact of climate change and extreme 
weather related impacts) to understand the 
impact each scenario could have on Bunzl’s 
business. Each climate risk was quantified using 
three scenarios: best-case, mid-case, and 
worst-case. We have then worked to calculate 
the financial impacts associated with the 
various scenarios. 
Looking at the various timeframes and the 
Group’s assessment of risk, principal risks are 
those which are material to the development, 
performance, position or future prospects 
of the Group. 
Given our assessment of the likelihood and 
magnitude of impacts under the various scenarios 
and for the four key risk areas, we conclude that 
climate change remains a principal risk for Bunzl. 
We also conclude that whilst climate change is a 
principal risk that is likely to have an impact on the 
Group in the future, the financial impacts are 
sufficiently limited and uncertain and sufficient 
opportunities exist to mitigate them. Our climate 
change response measures have been outlined 
on page 207 of the Annual Report 2024 and 
include proactive scanning and responding to 
customer expectations, offering a broad range of 
alternative product solutions, setting sciencebased emission reduction targets, and effectively 
passing on increased product costs (for example, 
due to carbon pricing) to our customers. 
5. Effectiveness of response measures 
We will continue to evaluate (and when necessary 
accelerate) our existing response measures to 
ensure that our business continues to be resilient 
to the assessed risks and is able to capitalise 
on business opportunities that our response 
to climate change may offer.
A low carbon business and workforce 
Our scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions in 2024 
and our baseline year (2019) are shown in the 
table below. 
We are on track to achieve our science-based 
reduction targets for 2030, which include a 27.5% 
reduction in emissions and a 50% decrease in 
emission intensity. Compared to 2019, our carbon 
Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions (market based)
2019
2024
2024 % 
reduction 
(vs 2019)
Total scope 1 and scope 2 emissions market-based 
(tonnes of CO2e)
141,3201
115,660◊
18
Emission intensity market-based 
(tonnes of CO2e/£m revenue)
13.8
10.2◊
26
1. Emissions and emissions intensity in our baseline year have been recalculated to reflect the impact of acquisitions. 
◊ Included in the external auditors’ limited assurance scope. See data assurance statement, which is available on our website, 
www.bunzl.com 
Bunzl has been working with us to 
quantify the carbon footprint of the 
materials we place on the market 
and has had a really proactive 
approach to baselining the 
materials we purchase and 
suggesting alternatives that reduce 
our overall environmental impact. 
I’ve been really impressed with the 
way the team has approached this 
emerging challenge of 
decarbonising packaging materials.”
ROB THOMPSON
Senior Packaging Manager, Food 
Sustainability, Co-operative Group
BUNZL Sustainability Report 2024
14

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Scope 1 and 2 
emissions source
KPI % of 
emissions in 2024
% change 
since 2019
Key initiatives and results in 2024
Progress
Commercial 
vehicles
49%
-13%
In 2024, we continued fuel-efficiency improvements with targeted initiatives in 
North America focusing on reducing diesel consumption in commercial vehicles.
We continue to trial and implement electric commercial vehicles where feasible.
Conversion of our large commercial vehicles is still at an early stage. Range 
limitations and impacts on operational efficiency still represent challenges for 
the large-scale transition of vehicles. We intend to increase the usage of 
Hydrotreated Vegetable Oil (‘HVO’) in our commercial vehicles and this initiative 
is currently in progress. 
In 2024, we have implemented several transitions to HVO in UK & Ireland and 
Continental Europe. The HVO consumption by our commercial vehicle fleet 
increased to approximately 1% of the Group diesel consumption, which is below 
our initial projections. However, we anticipate a notable increase in HVO usage 
in 2025, with around 15 additional transitions planned for the year.
Behind plan 
but working 
to meet 
target
Company cars
12%
-28%
We continue to replace Internal Combustion Engine (‘ICE’) company cars with 
electric and hybrid vehicles. In 2024, we have made significant progress in North 
America with more than 25% of the cars converted to hybrid. In UK & Ireland, 
more than 50% of company cars are electric and approximately 25% are hybrid. 
On track
Electricity
23%
-27%
We continue to install energy efficient lighting in our buildings. In North America, 
approximately 80% of the square footage of our sites has been equipped with 
LED lighting. 
The percentage of renewable energy purchased has increased to 28% in 2024. 
Our businesses continue to install electricity generating solar panels. Solar 
panels are now installed at 15 sites across the Group. The electricity generated 
by these installations represents 1% of our total energy consumption.
On track
Heating
16%
-12%
We actively trial and implement new technologies across the Group to 
support our long term carbon reduction targets. The heat pump installed by 
MultiLine has significantly improved energy efficiency and a planned installation 
of solar panels will help to further offset the need for fossil fuel-based power 
at the business. 
On track
Total
100%
-18%
We remain on track to meet our near term science-based targets.
On track
More information
Detailed energy consumption and climate change data can be found in the 
ESG appendix (see page 208 of the Annual Report 2024). Our climate change 
reporting procedures can be found in the EHS and Sustainability Reporting 
guidelines in the sustainability section of our website (www.bunzl.com/
sustainability/sustainability-reporting/).
The independent assurance for our scope 1 and scope 2 carbon emissions 
and emission intensity (tonnes of CO2e per £m revenue) calculations can 
be found in the ESG appendix of this report (see page 210 of the Annual 
Report 2024 and in the EHS data assurance statement in the sustainability 
section of our corporate website.
The limitations of current battery capacities 
significantly impact the efficiency and range 
of larger vehicles, which are essential for longdistance transportation and heavy-duty 
applications. Additionally, the infrastructure 
required to support the widespread use of large 
EVs remains underdeveloped. The continued 
reliance on fossil fuels for larger vehicles highlights 
the need for further innovations and investments 
to overcome these barriers for a successful large 
scale transition to electric mobility.
We actively trial and implement new technologies 
across the Group to support our longer term 
carbon reduction targets. A notable case study 
from Denmark demonstrates the effectiveness 
of technologies in reducing carbon emissions. At 
MultiLine, one of our businesses in Denmark, the 
installation of a state-of-the-art heat pump 
resulted in an impressive 80% reduction in 
carbon emissions. The heat pump significantly 
improved energy efficiency, while in a next step 
the installation of solar panels that generate clean 
electricity will further offset the need for fossil 
fuel-based power and supports the site in its 
journey to become net zero. This integration of 
green technologies not only enhances 
sustainability but over time also leads to 
considerable cost savings. The project highlights 
the potential for our businesses to achieve 
substantial environmental benefits while 
contributing to the Group commitment to a low 
carbon future.
As suitable new technologies develop, we will 
revisit our roadmaps accordingly to ensure our 
activities remain ambitious. The table to the right 
shows the near term activities our business areas 
are working on to ensure we stay on track to 
achieve our scope 1 and 2 science-based 
reduction goals in 2030.
We also report on our climate change 
performance through our annual response 
to the CDP. In 2024, we received a B rating 
for our response. 
BUNZL Sustainability Report 2024
15

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Investing in a diverse workforce
Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Belonging (‘DEIB’) 
are not just buzzwords at Bunzl; they are essential 
pillars of the success and sustainability of our 
modern businesses. As a global business we 
believe that if we embrace diverse perspectives 
into our decision making we will be able to 
respond far more quickly and nimbly to the 
demands of our customers, who themselves 
are diverse – straddling different market sectors, 
geographies and with a huge variety of end users. 
We accept that establishing common DEIB 
objectives across a decentralised and diversified 
group such as Bunzl is not easy, but we believe 
that making progress starts with the creation of 
a truly inclusive culture, where all of our c.27,000 
people can feel a sense of belonging and bring 
their whole selves to work.
We know that there are very compelling reasons 
for our businesses to deliver tangible 
improvements to the diversity of their teams. 
Firstly, diverse teams are proven to be more 
innovative and adaptable, and a variety of 
perspectives leads to better decision making and 
problem solving, giving our companies a 
competitive edge. Secondly, an inclusive culture 
enhances employee engagement (see page 32 of 
the Annual Report 2024) and satisfaction, 
reducing turnover and attracting top talent. 
Lastly, with our customers and investors 
increasingly valuing ESG, companies that prioritise 
diversity and inclusion are more likely to gain their 
trust and loyalty. We see this focus as a condition 
of doing business with all our major stakeholders.
Since we launched our first set of Group diversity, 
equity and inclusion targets in 2021, we have 
made great progress, as illustrated on page 37 of 
the Annual Report 2024.
The objectives themselves have evolved from an 
initial focus on gender diversity, where we have 
made significant progress, to a strategy around 
inclusion in its broadest sense. As evidenced 
elsewhere in the report, we have:
• further formalised our regional listening 
forums, including the sessions run by the 
non-executive directors;
• tracked the differences by gender in the Great 
Place to Work Survey and explored possible 
reasons for the differences with groups of 
female colleagues;
• held specific listening sessions between the 
CEO and groups of females and ethnically 
diverse colleagues; and
• rolled out the Reverse Mentoring initiative 
for the Leadership Team.
The drivers for investing in a diverse workforce at Bunzl
1
2
3
It is a critical component of our employment brand – a truly 
equitable and inclusive culture is increasingly becoming a 
necessity in the workplace.
It is also becoming a condition of doing business with our 
key customers and other stakeholders.
We need to open up the talent pool in order to attract, 
recruit and build the capabilities we need for the future.
EQUALITY
EQUITY
DOESN’T MEAN
Our materiality matrix
High
Very high
DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION: 
IDENTIFIED AS A MATERIAL 
ISSUE IN OUR 2020 AND 2023 
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENTS
BUNZL Sustainability Report 2024
16

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Progress in diversity, equity and inclusion
OUR COMMITMENT
GENDER DIVERSITY
WOMEN IN LEADERSHIP
TOTAL WORKFORCE AGE PROFILE
Continue to closely monitor the 
representation of women in senior roles 
(Board and Executive Committee) and 
endeavour to improve the number of 
women at the levels below the 
leadership team.
We will ensure that Bunzl has an 
inclusive culture where everyone, 
irrespective of background, can 
thrive and build their careers.
39%
1
61%
1
25%
2
Under 30
19%
 1% vs 2023
30–39
25%
 1% vs 2023
40–54
36%
 1% vs 2023
Over 55
20%
 1% vs 2023
1. Gender diversity at Group-level
2. 
Senior leadership group defined as the c.530 leaders 
that receive share awards as part of their remuneration
ACTIONS TO DRIVE SUCCESS IN 2025
GENDER DIVERSITY
MINORITY GROUP PARTICIPATION
Continue to maintain a representation of 
females in leadership roles of at least 20% 
and aim to make year-on-year improvement 
to the underlying percentage by: 
• continue with our current development, 
mentoring and sponsorship activities to 
prepare female colleagues for leadership 
roles. Ensure that all high-potential 
females have a development plan in place; 
• continuing to use the insights from the 
Great Place to Work survey to create 
meaningful action plans to improve female 
employee engagement;
• continuing our work to expand the 
‘Inspiring Women in Bunzl’ networks and 
other regional and local female-focused 
resource groups; and
• developing of our Group employer brand 
to articulate how it feels to work for Bunzl.
Continue to identify opportunities at a 
regional and local level to improve our 
employer value proposition and reputation 
as an inclusive employer by:
• continuing to build on the regional 
listening groups to ensure that underrepresented voices continue to be heard;
• supporting the expansion of the reverse 
mentoring programme;
• continue to use the insights from the Great 
Place to Work survey to create meaningful 
action plans to improve employee 
engagement for under-represented 
groups; and
• continue to ensure that we continue to 
have at least one Director from a minority 
ethnic background on the Board.
 1%
vs 2023
 3%
vs 2023
BUNZL Sustainability Report 2024
17

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Great Place to Work survey 
(Justice section)
Our recent Great Place to Work results 
demonstrated that our businesses are 
making good progress and those surveyed 
felt the people in their respective 
businesses are treated fairly regardless 
of their differences.
Positive responses from the survey 
population
81% 
People here are treated fairly 
regardless of their age
90% 
People here are treated fairly 
regardless of their race
88% 
People here are treated fairly 
regardless of their gender
91% 
People here are treated fairly 
regardless of their sexual orientation
Fostering diversity and inclusion 
is not just a moral imperative but 
a strategic business advantage. 
Companies that invest in creating 
inclusive environments will be 
better positioned to navigate the 
complexities of the modern world, 
drive sustainable growth, and 
contribute positively to society. 
I’ve been pleased to help lead our 
Inspiring Women in Bunzl 
programme in North America and 
I am delighted that the initiative 
has delivered tangible results.”
BETH DAHLKE
Division President Safety, 
Bunzl North America
Employee Resource Groups
Over the past year, our businesses have 
continued to introduce and run a number of 
initiatives designed to enhance diversity, equity 
and inclusion within the workplace. Employee 
Resource Groups (‘ERGs’) have proven to be 
particularly successful initiatives across our 
decentralised structure and have helped to foster 
a sense of belonging, enhanced employee 
engagement and promoted cultural awareness 
across our business areas. 
In Latin America, one of the most impactful 
initiatives in their strategy is the Empowering 
Women in Leadership Programme which was 
developed in 2021 in partnership with the 
Pontifical Catholic University of Chile. This 
programme represented a milestone in the 
business area’s commitment to female 
empowerment, offering practical tools for 
personal development and preparing women to 
take on leadership roles in the future. Since 2021, 
approximately 170 women from Latin America 
have participated in the programme and the 
results are notable, with 28% of the programme 
participants being promoted to senior positions 
across the region. 
The Inspiring Ethnicity in Bunzl (‘IEIB’) programme, 
initially created in the UK & Ireland, was officially 
launched in North America in 2024 with the 
mission of fostering networking, professional 
development, and mentoring opportunities for 
employees from diverse ethnic groups. IEIB is 
open to employees of any race or ethnicity. 
The first initiative was a Financial Awareness 
campaign. Topics included were ‘Money Matters 
to Me’, ‘Keys to Managing Credit’ and ‘Medical 
Benefits 101’. These topics of discussion were 
rolled out successfully to four pilot locations 
and involved c.400 employees. The second ERG 
launched in 2024 was Inspiring the Next 
Generation in Bunzl (‘INGIB’). Its primary aim 
is to ‘foster meaningful connections and ignite 
development for next generation professionals.’ 
In a short space of time the programme has 
attracted c.200 members and hosts quarterly 
virtual events on a variety of topics. Both ERG’s 
look forward to continuing growth and 
development in 2025. 
In Australia, we have continued to develop our 
First Nations programme by implementing our 
accredited Reconciliation Action Plan (‘RAP’) 
across the business, reaffirming our commitment 
to building partnerships with First Nations 
communities and businesses. In 2024, we 
appointed a First Nations adviser to build upon 
our initial engagement with these partners. The 
business area ran several engagement events to 
celebrate diversity and individualism, and to 
support our goal of being a diverse and inclusive 
workplace. These actions have increased our 
employees’ understanding of First Nations culture 
and strengthened procurement partnerships with 
First Nations-owned businesses, enhancing our 
ability to respond to tenders with genuine 
examples of support.
Our Inspiring Women in Bunzl (‘IWIB’) 
programmes have continued to meet and drive 
progress, contributing to our achievement of 25% 
women in senior leadership positions. This 
represents an 11% Group-wide increase since the 
launch of our first IWIB programme in the UK & 
Ireland in 2019. Elsewhere in the Group, Bunzl 
Ireland have achieved a Silver award in the Irish 
Centre for Diversity’s corporate accreditation 
scheme and a number of our businesses in 
France, Germany and Spain have signed the 
European Diversity Charter to promote diversity 
and inclusion in the workplace and report on the 
measures they have implemented.
BUNZL Sustainability Report 2024
18

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Providing tailored solutions
As the world grapples with pressing 
environmental challenges, the concept of a 
circular economy has emerged as a practical 
solution, offering a sustainable alternative to the 
traditional linear model. Current trends we see 
across our customers in the grocery, retail and 
foodservice sectors indicate a growing emphasis 
on reducing waste, recycling and reusing 
materials and extending product lifecycles. 
However, according to the Circularity Gap Report 
2024, global circularity decreased from 9.1% in 
2018 to 7.2% in 2023, highlighting the urgent and 
continued need for action1.
Legislation is also pivotal in supporting the 
circular economy. Policies like the EU’s upcoming 
Green Claims directive and Packaging Waste 
Only 1% of revenue generated from consumables facing regulation
Regulations are steps in the right direction, 
but more comprehensive measures are needed 
globally, coupled with improved infrastructure. 
To achieve faster and more significant progress, 
an integrated strategy for collection and recycling 
across cities, regions and countries is essential 
and advanced technologies such as chemical 
recycling should also be adopted to boost the 
amount of recycled materials available.
We have an important role in providing the 
tailored solutions that respond to these trends 
and continue to enable customers to transition to 
products and solutions that support a low carbon 
and more circular economy. This unique ability 
represents both a competitive advantage and 
growth opportunity for Bunzl.
Non-packaging 
products
£7.8bn (68%*)
Packaging with an 
important purpose
£0.4bn (3%*)
Packaging and products made 
from alternative materials
£2.0bn (18%*)
Consumables facing 
regulation
£0.1bn (1%*)
Consumables likely 
to transition
£1.1bn (10%*)
Our material ESG themes
PROVIDING TAILORED SOLUTIONS
TAKING ACTION ON CLIMATE CHANGE
BUSINESS CONDUCT
OUR CUSTOMERS
By providing our customers with a broad range 
of essential items, readily available from stock, 
alongside specialist knowledge and expertise, 
we provide the reassurance our customers need 
for essential items, which allows them to focus on 
their core businesses. We have more than 6,500 
expert sales people and locally based customer 
service specialists who use their deep and 
detailed knowledge to work with customers to 
ensure that they receive the best possible advice 
on all product and service-related matters.
These teams are supported by local and regional 
sustainability specialists across the Group who 
possess a deep understanding of our products, 
customer sectors, operations and their 
challenges. They drive the integration of our 
sustainability value proposition with customers; 
providing customer-specific data, advice and 
regular updates on new legislation and trends, 
often through proprietary in-house tools (see 
pages 22 and 23 for examples). This means, in 
a world where new sustainability reporting and 
legislation requirements are increasing, our teams 
give significant value to customers by providing 
the data and expertise they need to make 
informed decisions and communicate their 
progress accurately and effectively.
This technical expertise, coupled with our 
sourcing proficiency, means we are uniquely 
positioned to supply the products and solutions 
our customers need to meet their targets, reduce 
carbon emissions, comply with legislation and 
improve their overall sustainability credentials. 
With customers facing the dual challenge of 
stricter packaging restrictions and cost pressures, 
our extensive (and increased) ranges of own 
brand packaging solutions help them transition 
to alternative materials at competitive prices while 
not compromising on product quality or 
sustainability credentials. 
* 
These figures do not include revenues from 2024 acquisitions (see Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements on 
page 159 of the Annual Report 2024).
Packaging refers to packaging and other products within the foodservice, grocery and retail sectors which are facing legislation 
or consumer pressure. We continue to exercise judgement to allocate the sales in 2024 to non-packaging products and the four 
packaging categories shown, which are taken at a point in time in the context of rapidly changing legislation and changes in 
products. Consumer demand for packaging and products made from alternative materials continues to drive our commitment 
to lead the transition to products and solutions that support a low carbon and more circular economy. More information on our 
packaging categories, and limitations with respect to the product data and related disclosures, are set out in the ESG Appendix 
on page 205 of the Annual Report 2024.
1. https://www.greenmatch.co.uk/environmental-impact-of-a-circular-economy
BUNZL Sustainability Report 2024
19

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Gain 
creation
Customer 
gains
Solutions
Customer 
tasks
Pain 
relief
Pain 
points
CUSTOMER
Our sustainability value proposition
SUPPORTED BY – RESPONSIBLY SOURCED SOLUTIONS AND SCIENCE-BASED CLIMATE CHANGE TARGETS
We provide data to 
make informed 
decisions
Providing solutions 
compliant 
with legislation
Solutions tailored to 
their business
Achieving targets and 
remaining compliant
Innovative 
sustainable products
Leading own brand 
ranges
Meet ESG targets, 
remain compliant
Pleasing consumers
Expert teams provide 
detailed product 
knowledge
Simplifying complex 
themes with 
proprietary tools
Complex, fragmented 
legislation
Making the right 
decision
In 2024, our businesses continued to help 
transition customers to packaging products made 
from alternative materials, and these solutions 
now account for 56% of total packaging sales 
across the Group. The Group continues to have 
very limited exposure (1%) to single-use plastic 
consumables facing regulation where some 
volume reduction is expected and the proportion 
of total Group revenue attributable to nonpackaging products or packaging made from 
alternative materials is high at 86%1.
Our teams have continued to present our 
sustainability value proposition to our customers 
in 2024, providing support with data collection 
projects, giving updates on new legislation and 
recommending and supplying new solutions. 
A combination of one-to-one meetings, in-person 
seminars and online webinars have been used.
Our sustainability value proposition is rooted 
in data, starting with our comprehensive 
understanding of our products, customer 
sectors, operations and their regional challenges. 
We provide access to detailed packaging data 
(material type, weight, composition, certifications 
and carbon footprint) and information our 
customers need to track progress against and 
report effectively on their targets.
Our expert sustainability teams then provide 
customer-specific advice and regular updates on 
new legislation and trends. They use proprietary 
in-house tools to present packaging data and 
carbon emission reports to customers and 
provide customer-specific advice and regular 
updates on legislation and trends.
Finally, unlike a consultancy service we are 
uniquely positioned to then supply the solutions 
our customers need to meet their targets, comply 
with legislation and improve their sustainability 
credentials. Our emerging own brand packaging 
ranges promote faster, more affordable transition 
to alternative materials (see page 27 of the Annual 
Report 2024) and we use our unique position in 
the supply chain to source alternative products for 
our customers that comply with new legislation.
In addition, Bunzl customers benefit from 
responsibly sourced products that safeguard 
against reputational risks and science-based 
climate change targets aimed at reducing carbon 
emissions in their value chain. In 2025, we will 
continue to take our value proposition to both 
new and existing customers and drive more of the 
benefits our engagement has brought this year.
1. Excluding revenue from acquisitions. 
BUNZL Sustainability Report 2024
20

--- PAGE BREAK ---

CASE STUDY
OUR SUSTAINABILITY 
VALUE PROPOSITION 
IN ACTION
Bunzl has secured a far-reaching new agreement 
with Aramark, the multinational foodservice and 
facilities management company providing 
services to clients across education, defence, 
healthcare, business, and leisure. The contract 
also supports Avendra International, Aramark’s 
wholly-owned business specialising in supply 
chain and group purchasing for third party 
clients in hospitality and other related sectors.
Bunzl will supply multiple Aramark and Avendra 
International locations across UK & Ireland and 
Continental Europe with a wide range of items 
including disposables, cleaning & hygiene 
materials, tableware and foodservice products. 
This new contract was secured as part of a new 
initiative whereby much of the negotiation and 
administration was undertaken at a centralised 
European level, with the local knowledge and 
expertise of individual Bunzl businesses used 
for fulfilment and distribution.
Aramark and Avendra International have enjoyed 
a strong partnership with Bunzl in the past and 
are delighted to have signed this expanded 
agreement. The deal aligns closely with their 
objective of leveraging central efficiencies and 
scale, while delivering local value and expertise 
to their clients, alongside a commitment to 
sustainable sourcing. The process was regularly 
supported by our sustainability experts who 
held a number of meetings with the Aramark 
team covering our sustainability value 
proposition along with deep dive sessions on 
specific topics like responsible sourcing and 
net zero.
 
Bunzl’s approach to all sustainabilityrelated topics is both robust and 
thorough. On numerous occasions, 
we’ve had the pleasure of connecting 
with passionate and knowledgeable 
sustainability experts and leaders 
within Bunzl’s business to better 
understand their current position 
and future strategy. In turn, this helps 
us identify how our business can 
leverage this expertise to support 
our own sustainability strategy, goals 
and targets.
We look forward to continuing our 
partnership with Bunzl; a supply 
partner who is committed to sharing 
ideas and implementing strategies 
centred around sustainability. Through 
our continued collaboration with Bunzl 
on various sustainability topics, we 
confidently offer our clients solutions 
that add value to their operations and 
support diverse sustainability 
requirements, aligned with Aramark’s 
‘Be Well. Do Well.’ platform, 
promoting the well-being of people 
and the planet.”
DUNCAN BENNETT
Vice President Global Supply Chain, 
Aramark & Avendra International
BUNZL Sustainability Report 2024
21

--- PAGE BREAK ---

CASE STUDIES
DATA
In Finland, one of our recent acquisitions, 
Pamark, has developed a strategic partnership 
with their product suppliers to build a 
database and platform called ‘Greenline’ that is 
used with customers to help them understand 
the environmental and societal impacts of the 
products they buy. Funded by our product 
suppliers (Greenline Partners), the platform 
now has carbon emissions information for 
c.17,000 products and has proven to be a 
source of competitive advantage and a useful 
tool for customer acquisition and retention.
Our customer, SSP UK & Ireland, create and 
run food and drink outlets in travel locations. 
As part of their sustainability journey, they are 
working to remove virgin plastic from their 
business. Where it is particularly difficult to 
remove plastic, they are focusing their efforts 
on shifting the mix away from virgin polymers 
and towards recycled plastic. A critical enabler 
of this was to gain better visibility of their virgin 
plastic consumption. Bunzl Catering Supplies 
(‘BCS’), in the UK & Ireland, conducted a 
detailed assessment of SSP’s plastic footprint. 
Using these insights, SSP are now trialling 
swaps for the biggest virgin plastic drivers 
with BCS, for example refuse sacks with a 
higher percentage of recycled content.
CASE STUDY
AWARD WINNING SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING
Bunzl Safety and Lifting won an 
Australian PIDA (Packaging Innovation 
Design Award) for Sustainable 
Packaging. The award is designed 
to recognise companies that have 
developed innovative packaging 
solutions that incorporate 
sustainability solutions. Key 
improvements included reducing 
the size of swing tags, replacing 
unrecoverable plastic garment bags 
with cardboard pack bands, switching 
from solvent-based inks on cartons to 
less toxic water-soluble ink, and 
replacing plastic swing ties with 
cotton cords. 
These efforts, which spanned over 
2,000 SKUs and covers the entire 
workwear range, are expected to 
divert more than two tonnes of plastic 
from landfill annually.
BUNZL Sustainability Report 2024
22

--- PAGE BREAK ---

CASE STUDIES
SOLUTIONS 
As part of a new five-year pallet wrap supply 
contract worth AUD 800,000, Bunzl Australia 
New Zealand also supplied 70 new Advantage 
pallet wrap machines, valued at over AUD 1.5 
million. The customer’s decision to enter into a 
new contract and invest in new machinery was 
not only driven by enhanced load containment 
but also by significant waste reduction and 
cost savings. By transitioning to a higher 
quality, thinner pallet wrap, the customer 
achieved annual cost savings of 50% and 
reduced plastic waste by c.200 tonnes. 
Bunzl Distribution Denmark formed a 
team of sustainability and food packaging 
specialists to successfully attract two 
international customers who supply food 
worldwide with total revenues reaching over 
€3 million in 2024. The team has worked 
with the fresh produce and seafood 
wholesalers to help them achieve their 
sustainability goals by transitioning their 
packaging products to materials well suited 
to the household recycling infrastructure in 
Scandinavia. The team has worked to 
consolidate multiple packaging suppliers into 
one and switched non-recyclable products to 
solutions well suited to the circular economy, 
for example recyclable PET trays and mono 
material lidding films.
CASE STUDIES
KNOWLEDGE 
In North America, Bunzl helps customers 
meet their own sustainability goals through its 
internal ‘Blue Key’ sustainability consultancy 
offering. In 2024, Blue Key advisers worked 
with a large restaurant group with over 6,500 
stores to provide detailed information and 
guidance on the legislation they face across 
the country. With a fragmented and complex 
legislative environment in the USA, the 
database Blue Key advisers created for the 
customer was well received and given the 
lack of internal sustainability resources in the 
customer’s business, was cited as playing a 
key role in the retention of their contract.
Bunzl Retail Supplies (‘BRS’) in the UK offers 
a Sustainability Consultancy service, helping 
retailers navigate an evolving and complex 
legislative landscape. During 2024, 50 high 
volume product lines for a leading grocery 
retailer were mapped using external Life Cycle 
Assessment (‘LCA’) software to help calculate 
scope 3 carbon emissions. With support 
delivered to six major grocery retailers, the 
Sustainability Consultancy service enables BRS 
to invest in the technical development process 
for new innovative products. 
BUNZL Sustainability Report 2024
23

--- PAGE BREAK ---

GOVERNANCE
Now in its third year, our Board Sustainability 
Committee (‘BSC’) provides strategic oversight 
of our sustainability opportunities and risks and 
continues to further the Board’s knowledge in this 
important area for Bunzl. During 2024, the BSC 
met three times and in addition to assessing the 
progress made against our annual sustainability 
KPIs at every meeting, also reviewed our key 
projects from the last 12 to 18 months. Our 
double materiality assessment process, net zero 
transition plan, supplier engagement on climate 
change and customer value proposition were all 
discussed in detail and we will continue to bring 
updates on key projects, trends and legislation 
to the BSC in 2025.
Our Group Sustainability Committee is a 
cross-functional leadership body that engages the 
senior management teams across our business 
areas, offering oversight and strategic direction 
for our sustainability programme. Chaired by our 
CEO and attended by members of our Executive 
team, the Committee meets quarterly to ensure 
Bunzl has an ambitious and effectively governed 
sustainability strategy. It sets targets, monitors 
progress, and supports the work of our business 
area sustainability teams. In 2024, the Group 
Sustainability Committee reviewed the progress 
made against our sustainability targets, key 
projects and the details relating to new reporting 
legislation, for example, the EU Corporate 
Sustainability Reporting Directive.
Board Sustainability Committee
OUR SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE
Group Sustainability Committee
Business areas and operating company responsibilities
(including regional sustainability forums, local sustainability 
governance meetings, product and packaging groups)
Supply Chain 
Committee
Health & Safety 
Committee
Environment & Climate 
Change Committee
Board
We have a well-established governance structure to oversee 
the execution of our sustainability strategy and activities across 
the Bunzl Group.
The Supply Chain Committee is responsible for 
developing processes and procedures to identify 
opportunities and mitigate risks within our global 
supply chains, ensuring regulatory compliance as 
a minimum. In 2024, the Committee reviewed our 
new supply chain risk assessment work and the 
progress of our ethical auditing and supplier 
engagement programmes. 
The Health & Safety Committee is tasked with 
evaluating the key health and safety risks across 
Bunzl. They develop, review, and monitor 
appropriate policies, standards, and regulations 
related to health and safety management across 
the Group. In 2024, the Committee reviewed and 
updated the Group Health & Safety standards 
and safety audit programme and continued to 
focus on the roll out of a leading safety indicator 
programme.
Our Environment & Climate Change Committee 
governs the progress of our regional carbon 
roadmaps. The Committee meets four times 
a year and includes representation from 
all business areas. In 2024, the Environment 
& Climate Change Committee assessed 
performance against our environmental 
objectives and tracked the progress of 
initiatives aimed at reducing scope 1 and 2 
emissions across the Group, such as renewable 
energy procurement, alternative fuels, and the 
transition of commercial vehicles.
BUNZL Sustainability Report 2024
24

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The Taskforce on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) 
has developed a climate‑related 
financial risk disclosure framework 
for companies to provide 
information to investors, lenders, 
insurers and other stakeholders. 
Our climate-related disclosures are consistent 
with the TCFD recommendations and 
recommended disclosures as set out in the TCFD 
framework published in June 2017 and the 
updated ‘Annex’ published in 2021. The index 
table to the right provides a reference to where 
these disclosures can be found throughout our 
Annual Report 2024. 
Topic
Disclosure 
summary
Disclosure
Bunzl response
Governance
Disclose the 
organisation’s 
governance around 
climate-related risks 
and opportunities.
a) 
Describe the Board’s oversight of climaterelated risks and opportunities.
Page 24 
Governance report: pages 85–88, 89, 91, 94, 112–113 of the 
Annual Report 2024
b) 
Describe management’s role in assessing and 
managing climate-related risks and opportunities.
Page 24
ESG appendix: page 206–207 of the Annual Report 2024
Governance report: pages 85–89, 91, 94, 112– 113 
of the Annual Report 2024
Strategy
Disclose the actual 
and potential 
impacts of 
climate-related risks 
and opportunities 
on the 
organisation’s 
businesses, strategy 
and financial 
planning.
a) 
Describe the climate-related risks and 
opportunities the organisation has identified 
over the short, medium and long term.
Pages 13–14 
ESG appendix: page 206–207 of the Annual Report 2024
b) 
Describe the impact of climate-related risks 
and opportunities on the organisation’s 
businesses, strategy, and financial planning.
Pages 13–14 
ESG appendix: page 206–207 of the Annual Report 2024
c) 
Describe the resilience of the organisation’s 
strategy, taking into consideration different 
climate-related scenarios including a 2°C or 
lower temperature scenario.
Pages 13–14 
ESG appendix: page 206–207 of the Annual Report 2024
Risk 
management
Disclose how the 
organisation 
identifies, assesses 
and manages 
climate-related 
risks.
a) 
Describe the organisation’s processes for 
identifying and assessing climate-related risks.
Pages 13–14
Principal risks: pages 66–68, 74 of the Annual Report 2024
b) 
Describe the organisation’s processes for 
managing climate-related risks.
Pages 13–14 
Principal risks: pages 66–68, 74 of the Annual Report 2024
c) 
Describe how processes for identifying, 
assessing and managing climate-related risks 
are integrated into the organisation’s overall 
risk management.
Pages 13–14 
Principal risks: pages 66–68, 74 of the Annual Report 2024
Metrics and 
targets
Disclose the metrics 
and targets used to 
assess and manage 
relevant climaterelated risks and 
opportunities.
a) 
Disclose the metrics used by the organisation 
to assess climate-related risks and 
opportunities in line with its strategy and risk 
management process.
Pages 9–15 
Key Performance indicators: page 37 of the Annual Report 2024
Sustainability report: pages 208–209 of the Annual Report 2024
b) 
Disclose scope 1, scope 2, and, if appropriate, 
scope 3 greenhouse gas (‘GHG’) emissions and 
the related risks.
Pages 9–15
Key Performance indicators: page 37 of the Annual Report 2024
Sustainability report: pages 208–209 of the Annual Report 2024
c) 
Describe the targets used by the organisation to 
manage climate-related risks and opportunities 
and performance against targets.
Pages 9–15
Key Performance indicators: page 37 of the Annual Report 2024
Sustainability report: pages 208–209 of the Annual Report 2024
TCFD INDEX
BUNZL Sustainability Report 2024
25

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Bunzl plc
York House
45 Seymour Street
London
W1H 7JT