Non-Financial 
Report
2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
1
At Richemont, We Craft the Future
Maisons & Businesses
Foundations
Schools

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
2
Content
About this Report
4
About Richemont
5
Chief Sustainability Officer Message
7
Executive Summary
8
Business and ESG Performance Highlights
10
ESG Management System
11
Standards of Business Conduct
14
Materiality Assessment
15
ESG Risk Management
18
Stakeholder Management
20
Introduction 
3
Introduction
23
Climate Mitigation
24
Biodiversity Conservation
29
Freshwater Stewardship
30
Working to Address Environmental Challenges
32
Environmental Data Set
39
Acting on our Environmental Impact 
22
Introduction
62
Gold
64
Diamonds
66
Coloured Gemstones
67
Watch Components
68
Leather
69
Influencing our Supply Chain 
61
Promoting Transparency and Integrity
72
Maintaining the Trust of Clients and Stakeholders
73
Business and Human Rights
76
Speaking Up and Reinforcing our Values
78
Tools and Training that Support 
Adherence to our Policies
79
Sustainability Governance 
71
PwC Assurance Report
81
Disclosures in Accordance with Art. 964b 
of the Swiss Code of Obligations
88
Disclosure in Accordance with Art. 964j-l of the 
Swiss Code of Obligations and the Swiss Ordinance 
on Due Diligence and Transparency in Relation 
to Minerals and Metals from Conflict-Affected Areas 
and Child Labour
89
Glossary
91
Appendix 
80
Introduction
44
Being an Attractive Employer
44
Fostering Human Capital Development
46
Promoting Diversity and Equal Opportunity 
49
Ensuring the Health and Safety of our People
51
Social Data Set
55
Acting on our Social Impact 
43

--- PAGE BREAK ---

3
Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
Introduction

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
4
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Introduction
This year, Richemont has made further progress in consolidating 
non-financial reporting practices.
Richemont has been reporting on its Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR) activities since 2012 and published its first 
 
ESG Report in FY23.
The Non-Financial Report 2024 has been prepared in accordance 
with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards (2021). The 
report covers material environmental, social and governance 
impacts, as well as the Richemont management approach. The 
GRI Correlation Table and the GRI Content Index are included in 
the Basis of Preparation document, which is available on the 
Group’s website.
This report focuses on activities undertaken during the financial year 
2024 (1 April 2023 – 31 March 2024), except for environment data, 
which relates to the calendar year 2023 and is marked as such.
This report includes Richemont’s disclosures on non-financial 
matters required by Articles 964a-c of the Swiss Code of 
Obligations, which are summarised in the Disclosure in 
Accordance with Art. 964b Swiss Code of Obligations section of 
the appendix.
Richemont’s disclosures required by Article 964j-l of the Swiss 
Code of Obligations can be found in the ‘Disclosure in 
accordance with Art 964j-l of the Swiss Code of Obligations and 
the Swiss Ordinance on Due Diligence and Transparency in 
Relation to Minerals and Metals from Conflict-Affected Areas and 
Child Labour’ appendix.
For more information on data collection, please consult the 
Richemont Basis of Preparation document which outlines the 
principles and methodologies that guide data collection, 
restatements of information, analysis and reporting within the Group. 
This document, together with previous reports, can be found in the 
Sustainability section of the Group website under ‘Reports & Policies’.
 A glossary can be found in the appendix of this report.
Reporting Boundary
This report presents the performance of Compagnie Financière 
Richemont SA, all its Maisons and businesses, subsidiaries and 
regional offices accounted for by the financial control method, 
which, unless the context suggests otherwise, are referred to as 
‘we’, ‘us’, ‘our’, ‘Group’ and ‘Richemont’.
ESG data related to the Maison, Gianvito Rossi and the 
Manufacture Miles, acquired during the reporting period, is not 
included in the reporting scope of the Non-Financial Report 2024. 
Acting on our Social Impact and Influencing our Supply Chain 
chapters do not include data related to YNAP.
There are no significant changes to report regarding the Group’s 
activities, value chain, and business relationships, compared to 
the previous reporting period.
Board Approval and Date of Publication
This report was approved by the Board of Directors prior to 
publication on 13 June 2024.
Point of Contact
For enquiries regarding this report please contact:
Investor Relations
Email: investor.relations@cfrinfo.net
Group Sustainability
Email: sustainability@richemont.com
Assurance
Selected disclosures and indicators have been independently 
assured (limited assurance) by PricewaterhouseCoopers SA 
(PwC). For further information please consult the PwC Assurance 
Report in the appendix.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-looking Statements
This document contains forward-looking statements, including on 
sustainability objectives, targets, outlooks and plans. Words such 
as ‘may’, ‘should’, ‘estimate’, ‘project’, ‘plan’, ‘believe’, 
‘expect’, ‘anticipate’, ‘intend’, ‘potential’, ‘goal’, ‘strategy’, 
‘target’, ‘aim’, ‘will’, ‘seek’ and similar expressions may identify 
forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are 
based on current beliefs and expectations of Richemont. They 
are not guarantees of future performance or developments. 
Actual results may differ materially from the forward-looking 
statements as a result of a number of risks and uncertainties, 
many of which are outside the Group’s control. Richemont does 
not undertake to update, nor does it have any obligation to 
provide updates or to revise, any forward-looking statements.
About this 
Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
5
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Introduction
About 
Richemont
One of the world’s leading luxury goods groups, Richemont was established in 1988 and is the owner of  a unique portfolio 
 
of 28 Maisons and businesses.
They are all recognised for their excellence and operate across the following three main areas:
In addition, Richemont operates NET-A-PORTER, MR PORTER, THE OUTNET, YOOX and the OFS division for which a plan to sell the 
majority of the shares is in progress at the date of publication of this report.
Jewellery 
Maisons
Fashion & 
Accessories/Other
Specialist 
Watchmakers
We Work as Business Partners
OUR MAISONS & BUSINESSES
Directly in charge of:
 
– Creation
 
– Product development
 
– Manufacturing
 
– Marketing
 
– Communication
 
– Distribution network
 
– Customer services
in 
order 
to 
preserve 
their 
distinctiveness, unique heritage and 
DNA and enable their individual 
creativity to flourish.
HEADQUARTERS
Senior Executive Committee:
 
– Business and Sustainability strategy
 
– Capital allocation
Central functions:
 
– Provide guidelines, set policies and standards, and provide control 
and support on: Company Secretariat, Corporate Affairs, Finance 
(Investor Relations, Legal, M&A, Sustainability, Tax, Treasury), Human 
Resources, Marketing Services, Operations (Customer Services, 
Manufacturing, Indirect Procurement, Research & Innovation, 
Responsible Sourcing, Security, Health & Safety (H&S), Supply Chain 
& Logistics), Real Estate and Technology Platforms.
REGIONS
Regional operations:
 
– Europe
 
– Americas
 
– Asia Pacific
 
– Japan
 
– Middle East, India 
& Africa (MEIA)
Provide the right business environment for 
Maisons and businesses to grow their brand 
equity and run efficient local operations, 
leveraging central function services and 
attracting the best local talent.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
6
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Introduction
GENEVA
NEW YORK
TOKYO
HONG KONG SAR, CHINA
DUBAI
Global 
Presence
Richemont operates in more than
1
50 locations
OUR HEADQUARTERS ARE IN 
BELLEVUE, CANTON GENEVA, 
SWITZERLAND
Five regional offices provide support 
services to our Maisons in:
 
– Geneva for Europe
 
– Dubai for Middle East, India & Africa
 
– Hong Kong SAR, China for Asia Pacific
 
– Tokyo for Japan
 
– New York for the Americas
Directly operated by Richemont
1 367
Boutiques in our network
2 422

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
7
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Introduction
Chief 
Sustainability 
Officer 
Message
Quiet but Deep Sustainability
We continued to prioritise ESG integration across our Maisons, 
regions and functions throughout this financial year.
With new ESG regulatory frameworks entering into force in 
Switzerland and at the European Union level, FY24 marked the 
beginning of a paradigm shift in sustainability management. 
Sustainability has become ever more integral to finance and 
legal, 
with 
increasingly 
normative 
approaches 
requiring 
organisational and strategic adaptation across the Group.
Last year, we integrated the GRI Standards by design into our 
report, leading to insightful audit recommendations.
Our sustainability approaches are and have always been driven 
by our desire to “do good”. With that in mind, today the emphasis 
is on understanding risks to the planet, people and business. This 
requires a deeply embedded sustainability culture and a quiet 
and humble approach, alongside an ongoing dialogue with a 
broad spectrum of stakeholders, from scientists, civil society and 
suppliers, to employees, investors and policy makers.
In today’s ever-changing context, solutions need transversal 
collaborations, both internally and externally. This results in the 
need for new expertise, through learning and development, 
which has been accelerated with the creation of the Richemont 
Sustainability Online Academy.
ESG performance and ESG reporting are a broad and collective 
effort involving contributions from many teams across the 
Group’s  Maisons, regions and functions. This report aims to 
capture our colleagues’ efforts to take responsible decisions 
every day to minimise climate impact, protect biodiversity and 
respect human lives.
I would like to recognise and thank everyone for their ongoing 
commitments and actions to help Richemont Craft the Future 
every day.
Bérangère Ruchat
Chief Sustainability Officer

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
8
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Introduction
Executive 
Summary
Our approach to sustainability is inspired by our history and 
ambition to nurture our Maisons and businesses and enable them 
to grow and prosper in a responsible manner. Sustainability is 
integral to the Group’s long-term vision and guides how it 
operates as a responsible business.
Environment, Social and Governance Management System
During the year under review, Richemont took the next step on its 
journey of continuous improvement, having completed the 
development of a Group-wide ESG Management System. This 
provides the overarching framework integrating policies, 
processes and actions, to execute the Group’s ESG priorities.
The system is informed by the Materiality Assessment conducted 
at the beginning of 2023 and the Group’s ESG Risk and 
Opportunity Assessment (ROA) conducted during the year. 
Built on the insights of the materiality assessment, the ROA helped 
to identify, prioritise, and contextualise ESG-related risks 
 
and opportunities.
The development of the system was also supported by the 
Richemont Sustainability Online Academy, bringing expertise inhouse and moving away from project-based interventions to one 
consistent approach across Maisons, functions and regions. The 
Group’s Chief Sustainability Officer oversees the operationalisation 
of the management system, sustainability performance and 
reporting, and leads the Group Sustainability team, which 
interacts with more than 100 sustainability leaders across 
Richemont’s Maisons, regions and functions.
Acting on our Environmental Impact
Richemont continually strives to manage and reduce the 
environmental impact from its operations and supply chains.
In 2023, Richemont was recognised by the Carbon Disclosure 
Project for its environmental performance, receiving an A- score 
for climate change. This score is a testament to Richemont’s 
environmental leadership and puts the Group amongst the top 
22% of all global respondents. The Group continues to work 
towards its Science Based Targets set in 2021.
Richemont’s 
key 
environmental 
challenges 
include 
 
understanding and mitigating the impacts of climate change, 
responsible 
resource 
use, 
biodiversity 
conservation 
and 
 
freshwater stewardship. 
As part of Richemont’s ongoing commitment to material 
innovation, the Group has been engaged in research and testing 
of new materials as potential alternatives to Polyvinyl chloride, a 
synthetic polymer. The PVC phase-out initiative culminated in the 
cessation of PVC containing product sales in its stores and to 
wholesalers, including packaging and gifts, as of December 
2022. PVC has been added in Richemont Product Restrictive 
Substance List (PRSL) to ensure its permanent phase out.
The Group works to improve energy efficiency and reducing 
Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions through energy management 
and buildings efficiency gains across its global real estate 
portfolio. Richemont is a member of the RE100 and has formally 
committed to sourcing 100% renewable electricity by no later 
than 2025. In 2023, 97% of Richemont’s electricity consumption 
comes from renewables sources.
Dedicated Health, Safety and Environment team and Chemical 
Competence Center ensure chemicals are managed responsibly.
Acting on our Social Impact
Richemont supports its people throughout the employment 
journey, from talent attraction to employee engagement and 
management, and has been recognised as an attractive place 
to work, receiving various awards during the year.
The Group is focused on creating an inclusive environment 
through various initiatives. This year, Richemont achieved a major 
milestone gaining EQUAL-SALARY certification at a global level, 
verifying that its employees are paid equitably across genders in 
every market where it operates (excluding YNAP and sites 
in Russia).
The Group takes a long-term approach to talent attraction, 
recruiting people not just for their first role, but also for their 
potential and ability to learn and develop towards their 
aspirations in the Group. Ongoing performance management 
and development are recorded in the ‘My Performance 
Journey’. This connects employees’ annual performance reviews 
with their growth and development needs and is supported by a 
comprehensive 
learning 
and 
development 
programme. 
Richemont also supports apprenticeships and internships and 
builds partnerships with schools and universities to preserve 
craftsmanship to sustain the luxury industry.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
9
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Introduction
Executive Summary continued
Influencing our Supply Chain
Richemont aims to ensure that responsible sourcing standards are 
respected across its supply chains.
During the year under review, the Responsible Sourcing 
Handbook, available internally, was developed to establish a 
common framework around risk management and due 
 
diligence methodologies.
The Supplier Code of Conduct, the Raw Materials Sourcing Policy 
and the Group Procurement Policy lay the foundations for the 
Group’s responsible sourcing approach. These policies are 
supplemented by membership of industry organisations that set 
and monitor standards for specific supply chains.
Governance of the Group’s fine gold purchases is provided by 
the Gold Sourcing Committee, which oversees the definition of 
purchasing standards, the validation of Varinor’s sourcing 
decisions, the control of the panel of existing suppliers, and the 
monitoring of purchases and due diligence reports. The Stones 
Supply Chain Committee governs the supply of diamonds and 
gemstones. An important pillar in the Group’s strategy is to 
promote the Responsible Jewellery Council’s Code of Practices 
and Chain of Custody certifications across the relevant 
 
supply chains.
Richemont is a member of the Leather Working Group, as well as 
of the International Crocodilian Farmers Association, which sets 
crocodilian farming practices with respect to animal welfare.
The watch components supply chain is overseen by the Group’s 
Sourcing Intelligence and Responsible Sourcing teams, and 
Richemont’s privileged panel of suppliers is predominantly 
composed of small-to-medium sized enterprises, with whom the 
Maisons have established long-term relationships through close 
collaboration and partnerships.
Sustainability Governance
Sustainability is firmly embedded at the highest governance level 
of the Group through the Governance and Sustainability 
Committee, which regularly updates and reports its actions to the 
Board of Directors. The Governance and Sustainability Committee 
supports the Board in establishing and reviewing strategy, 
 
policies and guidelines that address all aspects of Richemont’s 
ESG framework.
The Chief Sustainability Officer is a permanent attendee of this 
Committee and a member of the Senior Executive Committee, 
the executive management body of Richemont responsible for 
overseeing the management of ESG performance and reporting. 
Group Sustainability is integrated within the Finance division, 
 
with the Chief Sustainability Officer, reporting to the Chief 
 
Finance Officer.
Sustainable and ethical principles are the foundations of 
Richemont’s Standards of Business Conduct that define the 
behaviours expected of all employees. These are underpinned 
by the Richemont Speak Up platform, where suspected violations 
can be reported.
This year the Group progressed in the roll-out of the Speak Up 
Platform, which was initially launched in June 2022. It forms an 
essential part of the Group’s ethical standards. The platform 
allows employees and any third party to report any concerns via 
telephone or an online form, with an option for anonymity. 
 
This year it was extended to include the possibility for third parties, 
such as suppliers, to report concerns about unethical and 
 
illegal behaviour.
In FY24, Richemont launched a Human Rights Statement, 
reflecting the Group’s commitment to respect the human rights 
of its stakeholders, including employees, clients, investors, 
partners, suppliers and other people impacted by its value chain. 
The launch was supported by a dedicated human rights training 
module to help raise awareness of this material topic.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
10
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Introduction
Business and ESG 
Performance Highlights
Key figures
Sales by geographic location
Middle East and Africa 
8%
Europe 
22%
Asia Pacific 
40%
Americas 
22%
Japan 
8%
Sales
€20.6bn
Watch sales
€7.0bn
Operating profit
€4.8bn
Clothing, leather goods & accessories sale
€1.8bn
Jewellery sales
€10.7bn
Cash flow from operating activities
€4.7bn
Materiality of ‘Exclusion Criteria’
In addition to widespread investor demand for ESG disclosures, 
some investors apply ‘exclusion criteria’ to their portfolio decisions. 
To help them, Richemont provides the following information 
regarding gun, alcohol and tobacco-related products. Together, 
the sales of guns by James Purdey & Sons, the sales of alcoholic 
beverages in two dunhill restaurants and the sales of tobacco 
accessories, such as dunhill pipes, account for significantly less 
than 1% of Group sales. Accordingly, the sale of such products is 
not a material element of Richemont’s business.
Established ESG Management System, informed 
by ESG Risk and Opportunity Assessment
Launched Richemont Sustainability Online 
Academy for training and development
Sustainability Approach
31%
reduction vs 2022 in CO2e emissions from 
transportation and distribution
22%
of Richemont-owned buildings with internationally 
and nationally recognised building standards
Acting on our Environmental Impact
Committed to preserving craftsmanship by 
nurturing young creative talents
Achieved global gender EQUAL-SALARY 
certification covers >38 000 employees 
across 39 markets
excluding YNAP and sites in Russia
Acting on our Social Impact

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
11
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Introduction
ESG Management System
Richemont’s ESG Management System, as illustrated in the 
diagram below, establishes the overarching structure that 
integrates policies, processes and actions, providing the 
framework to execute the Group’s ESG priorities.
Last year the Group enhanced the role of the Group Sustainability 
function, acting as competence centre for the Maisons, 
 
regions and functions and operating around three pillars: 
 
ESG Transformation, ESG Excellence and ESG Engagement.
The ESG Management System shows how the findings of the 
Materiality Assessment and the ESG Risk and Opportunity 
Assessment (ESG ROA) inform the Group’s policies, taskforces 
and committees, and drive due diligence across direct operations 
and supply chains, supported by stakeholder engagement, 
training and capacity building, as well as the Speak Up Platform. 
This report expands on these building blocks, giving more 
 
details on the context, approach and progress to date on 
 
each topic.
ESG Management System
Senior Executive Committee
Board of Directors and its Committees
Policies
Reporting
Action Plans
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM)
Double Materiality Assessment
ESG Risk and Opportunity Assessment (ROA)
Processes
Committees and Taskforces
ESG Due Diligence
Stakeholder Engagement
Training and Capacity Building
Speak Up Platform
Governance bodies
Policies
Processes and actions

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
12
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Introduction
ESG Management System continued
Governance and Management
Sustainability is firmly embedded at the highest governance level 
of the Group through the Governance and Sustainability 
Committee, which regularly updates and reports its actions to the 
Board of Directors. Established in March 2021, it replaced the 
Ethics Subcommittee, which had been created in 2019. This 
committee reviews all management proposals regarding the 
sustainability roadmap. 
The Governance and Sustainability Committee (G&SC) supports 
the Board in establishing and reviewing strategy, policies and 
guidelines that address all aspects of Richemont’s ESG framework. 
The Committee convenes five times per year, and the Group 
Sustainability team assists with setting the agenda, following a 
comprehensive work programme covering all aspects of 
Richemont’s ESG framework. External stakeholders are regularly 
invited to discuss critical matters requiring the Committee’s 
attention and contribute to the Committee’s decision-making 
process when and where relevant.
The G&SC advises the Board on the following matters:
 
– review and approval of proposals regarding climate, energy, 
water, biodiversity, waste, and resource scarcity;
 
– oversight of due diligence processes and the Materiality 
Assessment, which focus on Richemont’s impact on ESG topics 
and include insights on internal and external stakeholder 
engagement (the effectiveness of these due diligence and 
engagement processes is reviewed on an annual basis);
 
– management proposals regarding diversity, equity and 
inclusion, respect of human and labour rights and social 
impact on supply chains and communities; and
 
– ESG or sustainability-related amendments to strategic plans.
The Committee reports to the Board on its proceedings after 
each meeting on all matters within its duties and responsibilities, 
including any matters on which the Board has requested the 
Committee’s opinion. Items can be discussed with the Board at 
large if required. This committee comprises the following nonexecutive directors: Ms Jasmine Whitbread, Mr Clay Brendish, 
Ms Wendy Luhabe and Mr Guillaume Pictet (until 31 March 2024). 
Ms Whitbread, the Committee’s Chair, has extensive experience 
of ESG-related topics, including competencies in human rights 
and child protection, and the other members’ experience 
includes tenure on ESG committees, risk management and 
oversight of business ethics in other Boards.
The Governance and Sustainability Committee, like the Board and 
each of its permanent committees, conducts an annual selfassessment of its role and effectiveness, providing members with 
the opportunity to reflect on their individual and collective 
performance. The results of this assessment are then communicated 
to the Board to reinforce competencies on ESG matters. 
In addition to the Governance and Sustainability Committee’s 
mandate, the Board’s Audit Committee oversees the adequacy 
and effectiveness of risk management practices within the 
Group. These include risk management practices for ESG risks. 
The Audit Committee examines and reviews the adequacy, 
effectiveness and integrity of the practices to ensure the Group’s 
compliance with all applicable laws and regulations and ensure 
compliance with Richemont’s Standards of Business Conduct.
The Chief Sustainability Officer is a permanent attendee of the 
G&SC and a member of the Senior Executive Committee (SEC), 
the executive management body of Richemont responsible for 
overseeing the management of ESG performance and reporting. 
Group Sustainability is integrated within the Finance Division, with 
the Chief Sustainability Officer, reporting into the Chief Finance 
Officer (CFO). The Chief Sustainability Officer leads the Group 
Sustainability team, which connects with more than 100 
sustainability leaders from various Maisons, regions and functions. 
This community meets every year, with regular contacts in 
between to ensure alignment to the Group’s latest ESG standards 
and requirements. The majority of Maisons, regions and functions 
have now created their own ESG Governance aligning what 
they are already doing with the Group ESG Management System.
Policies
Richemont’s Standards of Business Conduct set the standards for 
employee behaviour and guide the development of all Group 
policies. The Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC), Environmental 
Code of Conduct and Data Privacy Policy are well-established 
policies that support the ESG Management System. This year the 
Human Rights Statement was published.
The Richemont Human Rights Statement, reflects the Group’s 
longstanding fundamental principles of respecting the human 
rights of all people across the business and value chain, including 
employees, customers, investors, partners and suppliers. This 
aligns with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and 
Human Rights, and the Principles of the United Nations Global 
Compact (UNGC), to which Richemont is a participant.
More details on our Human Rights statement are covered in the 
Sustainability 
Governance 
chapter. 
Further 
details 
on 
 
how Richemont embeds its policy commitments across its 
 
supply chain are described within the Influencing our Supply 
Chain chapter. 
Committees and Taskforces
The Group has multiple specialised committees and taskforces 
that address ESG topics. These committees cover, among others, 
the topics related to supply chain, health and safety, environment, 
and human rights. More information on these committees is 
described in the Acting on our Social Impact, Influencing our 
Supply Chain, and Sustainability Governance chapters.
The Committee comprises four independent non-executive directors
Jasmine Whitbread
Clay Brendish
Guillaume Pictet
Wendy Luhabe

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
13
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Introduction
ESG Management System continued
Materiality Assessment
Undertaking a Materiality Assessment in FY23 allowed Richemont 
to understand what matters most to its large and diverse group of 
stakeholders and has helped build an ESG Management System 
that focuses resources on the material topics identified. 
Based on the double materiality principle, Richemont’s latest 
materiality assessment gathered insights into its impacts on 
business, people and the environment. In turn, these insights 
helped shape priorities to define the group’s future actions. 
Stakeholder groups, their interests and how the Group engages 
with them are presented in the stakeholder mapping table 
included at the end of this chapter.
ESG Risk and Opportunity 
Assessment
This year the Group undertook its first ESG ROA that builds on the 
material ESG topics impacting Richemont and its stakeholders. 
This is highlighted in the Materiality Assessment, and aims to 
identify, prioritise and contextualise ESG-related risks and 
opportunities. The ROA process aligns with the ESG risks in the 
Group Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) and equally, the ROA 
results feed into the Group ERM. It is designed to comply with 
increasingly stringent ESG reporting requirements, including those 
of the Swiss Code of Obligations (Art. 964a-c). More detail on the 
methodology guiding Richemont’s ROA and the outcome of the 
assessment is covered in the ESG Risk Management section.
ESG Due Diligence
Due diligence is a key part of the supply chain management and 
human rights framework. In line with the requirement of Art. 964j-l 
of the Swiss Code of Obligations, due diligence on child labour is 
set as a priority. The Influencing our Supply Chain chapter covers 
more details on the due diligence processes the Group follows in 
supply chain management. Furthermore, the due diligence 
processes for human rights can be found in the Sustainability 
Governance chapter.
Stakeholder Engagement
Richemont has a broad range of stakeholders and engages with 
them in a variety of ways, from surveys for employee feedback, 
to investor meetings and membership of industry bodies. The 
Materiality Assessment process is driven by comprehensive 
stakeholder engagement. Social impact and community support 
are material topics for Richemont. Community investment 
nurtures talent, promotes sports and sportsmanship and 
contributes to environmental conservation and peace building 
as outlined on the Group website. More details are available in 
the Richemont Annual Report and Accounts 2024.
Training and Capacity Building
Building internal capacity and knowledge is essential to 
embedding sustainability in the Richemont culture, enabling the 
Group to respond to a constantly shifting marketplace and 
regulatory landscape.
In FY24, the Richemont Sustainability Online Academy was 
launched, a Group-wide training programme that coordinates 
capacity development activities under one umbrella. The goal of 
the Academy is to equip everyone within the Group with the right 
tools and opportunities to grow their ESG technical understanding. 
From beginners to sustainability practitioners, the Academy aims 
to raise awareness, build competencies and deliver expertise.
Reporting
The Non-Financial Report is prepared in accordance with the 
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. Effective ESG 
reporting provides crucial insights to aid decision making and 
increase transparency to meet the expectations of internal and 
external stakeholders. The reporting requirements of the Swiss 
Code of Obligations (Art. 964 a-c and Art. 964l) have been 
addressed in this year’s Report. In terms of approval, the report on 
Non-financial matters is to be approved by the Board of Directors. 
While the G&SC has the primary Non-financial reporting oversight, 
the validation of the Non-Financial Report (for final approval by 
the Board of Directors) is assigned to the Audit Committee, which 
will enable it to leverage its financial disclosure oversight expertise, 
and ultimately make the recommendation to the Board.
In addition, the international standards and principles of the UN 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the ten principles of 
the UN Global Compact, remain Richemont’s compass guiding 
its approach.
Speak Up Platform
This year the Group progressed in the roll-out of the Speak Up 
Platform which was initially launched in June 2022. It forms an 
essential part of the Group’s ethical standards. The platform 
allows employees and any third party to report any concerns via 
telephone or an online form, with an option for anonymity. This 
year it was extended to include the possibility for third parties, 
such as suppliers, to report concerns about unethical and illegal 
behaviour. More details on this platform are included in the 
Sustainability Governance chapter.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
14
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Introduction
Standards of 
Business Conduct
The Group’s revised Standards of Business Conduct (the 
‘Standards’) were introduced in September 2021 and updated in 
November 2022, with a heightened focus on ethical and 
sustainable principles. Richemont’s Standards of Business 
Conduct are available in the Sustainability page of the Group’s 
website under ‘Reports & Policies’.
The Standards approved by the Governance and Sustainability 
Committee of the Board act as a foundation for the Group’s 
culture and guides legal, ethical and sustainable decisions in all 
countries where the Group operates. The document is available 
on the Richemont website and internally on the Group’s intranet. 
The Standards of Business Conduct apply to everyone who 
represents the Group. This includes employees, directors, 
temporary staff, contractors, agents, consultants and business 
partners. The Standards of Business Conduct provide guidance in 
any situation, even in circumstances not explicitly covered. 
Standards are reviewed every three years to ensure that they 
continue to evolve with the global, ethical and legal standards 
expected of the Group and they have been developed with 
consideration of emerging regulations.
The standards and the results of the Materiality Assessment help 
prioritise the most pertinent ESG topics. Policies and actions are 
aligned with the expectations of stakeholders and the ethical and 
legal standards of the communities where Richemont operates.
Integrity is one of the core values at Richemont: Richemont 
values people who cherish respect and value transparency and 
honesty. A global comprehensive compliance programme drives 
towards compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
During the reporting period 1 April 2023 to 31 March 2024 (the 
‘reporting period’) no final decision was adopted against 
Richemont companies alleging significant instances (significant 
being defined as cases with a fine or monetary penalty 
 
above CHF 100 000) of wrongdoing in the areas of anti-trust, anticorruption, anti-money-laundering or data privacy. These are the 
areas of compliance considered most important in light of 
Richemont’s risk profile and exposure as summarised in the 
Enterprise Risk Report. During the reporting period, it was also 
confirmed no final decision was adopted against Richemont 
companies alleging significant breaches of applicable product 
and labelling laws.
The Standards are divided into five pillars:
Creating the Right Environment for Employees
Featuring sections on Diversity & Inclusion, Working Environment & 
Behaviour and Health & Safety (H&S).
Promoting Transparency and Integrity in Decision-Making
Including sections on Conflicts of Interest, Anti-bribery & 
Corruption, Gifts, Hospitality & Other Benefits, Charitable 
Contributions, Political Participation, Anti-Money Laundering and 
Transparency in Accounting & Contracts.
Maintaining the Trust of Clients and Stakeholders
Covering sections on Protection & Use of Group Assets, 
Confidentiality & Protection of Information, Insider Dealing & 
Market Abuse, Competition and Anti-trust, Data Protection & 
Privacy and Social Media & Social Messaging.
Preparing for a Sustainable Future
Addressing sections on Trade in Products, Environmental 
Protection, Human Rights and Working Towards a Responsible 
Supply Chain.
Speaking up & Enforcing our Values
Any individual who suspects misconduct within the Group and/or 
its Maisons is encouraged to raise their concern in confidence 
through the Richemont Speak Up Platform.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
15
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Introduction
Materiality 
Assessment
Materiality is the foundation of  Richemont’s ESG agenda. 
It clearly identifies the areas that are  most important to 
stakeholders, it helps set priorities and informs decision-making.
Double Materiality
The principle of double materiality was applied in the most recent 
Materiality Assessment in FY23. This principle requires assessing the 
actual and potential impacts, not only limited to the financial 
materiality of ESG factors (e.g. the financial effects of climate 
change on Richemont), but also taking into account the impact 
of Richemont on people and the environment. The results of the 
ROA process reinforced risk priorities, impacts and opportunities 
gathered through the Materiality Assessment.
In FY23, the Materiality Assessment also identified the scope and 
scale of the impacts and likelihood of their occurrence 
 
and determined the importance that stakeholders assign to 
 
the topics.
Methodology Overview
Richemont engages with its stakeholders regularly to understand 
which ESG topics matter the most to them. These stakeholders 
include, but are not limited to, business leaders across Richemont’s 
Maisons, regions and functions, Non-Government Organisations 
(NGOs), industry associations, academics, sustainability experts, 
suppliers, shareholders and customers. The selection of external 
stakeholders was made in consultation with Maisons, regions 
 
and functions.
This process ensures the delivery of a data-driven materiality 
assessment, with the engagement ensuring its objectivity.
Clustering of 
ESG Topics
Data and 
Insights 
Collection
Development 
and 
Validation
Identification 
and 
Validation of 
ESG Topics
The 21 ESG topics are grouped into clusters: environmental sustainability; social sustainability; governance and economic 
sustainability; and value chain and supply chain sustainability. Four categories are used, providing a framework for 
evaluating the materiality of ESG topics. These categories are:
• impact on people and/or the environment;
• impact on business;
• stakeholder relevance; and
• dynamics of the materiality and possible evolution.
Step 2
Information is collected from diverse sources, including Richemont’s previously identified material topics, benchmark 
analysis, luxury retail databases, ESG standards, ESG investor topics and ratings requirements. The internal Steering 
Committee that oversees the Materiality Assessment is coordinated by the Group Sustainability team and comprised 
of 23 Richemont employees. It reviews and validates the information, resulting in a final list of 21 ESG topics, with around 
100 sub-topics.
A variety of data collection methods are employed, including interviews with 62 stakeholders, a survey of 640 stakeholders 
and a shareholder survey with 37 respondents. Additional research of external public sources and databases was also 
considered. This comprehensive data is compiled to identify, contextualise and prioritise the 21 material topics.
A detailed data analysis is conducted. The SEC, and the G&SC of the Board then validate the results. These diverse 
stakeholder perspectives are taken into account in Richemont’s ESG priorities.
Step 1
Step 3
Step 4

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
16
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Introduction
Materiality Assessment continued
Outcome
The process and findings of the Materiality Assessment provided 
 
a unique insight into the important topics on the minds of internal 
and external stakeholders. 
For further insight, a correlation table linking material topics to GRI 
indicators can be found in the GRI Correlation Table available in 
the Basis of Preparation, which is available on the Group’s website.
High
Low
Impact on people and/or environment
Impact on business
High
Low
Bubble size: Relevance to stakeholders 
Significant increase in impact on 
people and/or environment 
expected 
Significant increase in impact on 
business expected
Water stewardship
DEI
Circular economy
Animal welfare 
Biodiversity
Hazardous chemicals 
Pollution
Stakeholder engagement 
Waste management
Health, safety & wellbeing 
Conflict minerals
Customer expectations
Product innovation & quality
Climate, emissions & energy 
Talent & skills
Data privacy & cybersecurity
Governance & compliance 
Human rights 
Transparency & traceability
Social impact & communities
Sustainable finance
Non-material topics
Significant increase in impact on 
people and/or environment and 
on business expected
Topics in fields sorted first by relevance to 
stakeholders (i.e., bubble size) and then 
alphabetically

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
17
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Introduction
Materiality Assessment continued
Focus on Richemont’s 
Material Topics
Conflict minerals
Richemont management systems and policies, such as 
responsible sourcing standards, supply chain due diligence and 
established management practices, govern the sourcing of 
minerals, including precious metals, diamonds and coloured 
gemstones. For more information see Influencing our Supply 
chain chapter.
Customer expectations and satisfaction
Through its ESG Management System and its policies and action 
plans, Richemont is embedding practices that aim to ensure 
Richemont’s creations are of the highest standards and meet 
customers’ social, environmental and ethical expectations. 
 
For more information see Sustainability Governance chapter. 
Governance, ethics and compliance
Ethical corporate citizenship and adherence to an evolving 
regulatory landscape, including ongoing transparency related to 
ESG performance, anti-bribery and corruption, and business 
ethics, are fundamental to Richemont. For more information see 
Sustainability Governance chapter.
Human rights and labour standards across the value chain
Respecting 
human 
rights 
and 
labour 
standards 
is 
a 
 
priority 
throughout 
Richemont’s 
value 
chain 
and 
it 
is 
 
addressed through the Group’s Supplier Code of Conduct and 
due diligence processes. For more information see Sustainability 
Governance chapter.
Transparency and traceability of raw materials
Ensuring the transparency and traceability of the raw materials in 
Richemont’s value chain is highly important to enable monitoring 
and continuous improvement. Richemont makes the best 
endeavour to apply risk management and due diligence 
processes throughout its supply chain. For more information see 
Influencing our Supply Chain chapter.
Product innovation, creativity and quality
Richemont supports the advancement of creative and innovative 
materials, anti-counterfeiting measures and reliable quality to 
meet business and customer expectations. For more information 
see Sustainability Governance chapter.
Climate, emissions and energy
Richemont is working towards a consistent reduction of emissions, 
water use and waste. The most substantial Scope 3 emissions arise 
from suppliers within the value chain, hence engagement with 
suppliers being a key enabler to mitigate impacts. For more 
information see Acting on our Environmental Impact chapter.
Talent attraction and skills development
Richemont’s sustained success and competitiveness is reliant on 
nurturing new generations of artisans and craftsmen with unique 
skills and know-how. This is particularly relevant to the 
Watchmaking and Jewellery Maisons, which Richemont supports 
through its academic partnerships, apprenticeships, and Creative 
Academy. For more information see Acting on our Social Impact 
and Sustainability Governance chapters.
Data privacy and cybersecurity
Richemont takes the responsible and lawful management, 
handling and safeguarding of all customer, employee and 
supplier data seriously as outlined in its data protection 
 
policies and procedures. For more information see Sustainability 
Governance chapter.
Health, safety and wellbeing in own operations
The health and safety of Richemont’s employees, as well as 
workplace benefits and culture, are of great importance to the 
Group and covered by the Health and Safety Management 
System. For more information see Acting on our Social 
 
Impact chapter.
Social impact and community support
Continued engagement with local communities, regulators and 
industry bodies is fundamental given the global reach of 
Richemont’s operations. For more information see Annual Report 
and Accounts 2024.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
18
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Introduction
As outlined at the beginning of this report, Richemont’s ESG 
Management System includes a risk management framework 
that facilitates ESG performance management and promotes 
regulatory compliance.
The accompanying chart illustrates a key milestone achieved: 
the development of a specialised tool and handbook. This 
resource is engineered to standardise and enhance the ESG risk 
identification and assessment approach, fostering a unified 
language and understanding across the organisation.
As 
illustrated 
in 
the 
ESG 
ROA 
Process 
overview, 
this 
 
methodology 
encompasses 
four 
stages: 
Identification, 
Prioritisation, Assessment, and Mitigation, each contributing to 
the integration of ESG considerations into the Group’s 
 
core operations.
ESG ROA Process Overview
ESG Risk 
Management
Phase
Activities
Output
Identification of ESGrelated risks 
and opportunities
Prioritisation of ESGrelated risks 
and opportunities
Assessment of prioritised 
ESG-related risks and 
opportunities
Development and 
monitoring of mitigation 
strategies of prioritised 
risks
Development and 
update of ESG Risk and 
Opportunity Register, 
classified by TCFD 
category and material 
(sub-)topic
ESG ROA tool
Assessments & Handbook
Ranking and selection of 
risks and opportunities 
for further assessment 
based on total net score 
and defined threshold
Qualitative assessment of 
prioritised risk
Quantitative assessment 
of selected risks and 
scenario analysis of 
climate-related risks
Development of 
detailed action plans for 
risks to be reported to 
ERM and regular 
progress updates
Identification of ESG Risks 
and Opportunities
A wide-ranging consultation across Maisons, regions and 
functions has been undertaken, gathering insights on the key ESG 
risks and opportunities. This collaborative effort has led to the 
compilation of a comprehensive list, categorised according to 
the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 
framework and the Materiality Assessment topics.
Prioritisation of ESG Risks 
and Opportunities
Utilising a systematic calculation logic based on the interview 
scoring, risks and opportunities are ranked. The methodology 
incorporates a weighting mechanism based on annual revenue 
contributions by region and business area, allowing prioritisation. 
This rationale aligns with the materiality assessment and guides 
the escalation process to the ERM.
Qualitative and Quantitative 
Assessment
Prioritised risks and opportunities undergo a detailed analysis to 
contextualise their impact, underlying drivers, current mitigation 
efforts and potential action plans. This stage leverages both 
internal and external data sources to enrich understanding and 
ensure the accuracy and relevance of the assessments. For 
climate-related risks, the process foresees a scenario analysis, 
which evaluates potential impacts based on predefined global 
warming scenarios.
Development and Monitoring 
of Mitigation Strategies
The culmination of this process is the formulation of targeted 
action plans designed to mitigate identified risks and capitalise 
on opportunities. These strategies are monitored, and progress is 
reported through the ERM. 
The first assessment included 31 interviews conducted across 
different Maisons, regions and functions. Through the interviews 
and the analysis of supporting documentation originating from 
internal and external sources (e.g. reports of the CDP, 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, World Resources 
Institute, Worldwide Fund for Nature, World Economic Forum), 
49  ESG risks and 14 opportunities have been identified, out of 
which 13 risks and 8 opportunities were identified as priorities.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
19
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Introduction
ESG Risk Management continued
Risk/Opportunity
ESG Topic
TCFD
Risk Mitigation Measures – 
Reference to Report chapter
Environment
Risk
Long-term climate shifts and more 
frequent extreme weather events
Climate, emissions 
and energy
Physical
Acting on our Environmental Impact – 
Working to Address Environmental Challenges
Water scarcity along the supply 
chain
Climate, emissions 
and energy
Physical
Acting on our Environmental Impact – 
Freshwater Stewardship
Opportunity
Support environmental 
performance
Climate, emissions 
and energy
Resilience
Acting on our Environmental Impact
Support the achievement of 
SBT targets through supplier 
engagement
Climate, emissions 
and energy
Resilience
Acting on our Environmental Impact
Social
Risk
Human rights and labour 
standards violations in the 
Group’s supply chains
Human Rights and labour 
standards across the 
value chain
Reputation
Influencing our Supply Chain; Sustainability 
Governance – Business and Human Rights
Failing retention and creation 
of talent pipeline
Talent attraction and 
skill development
Market
Acting on our Social Impact – 
Being an Attractive Employer, 
Fostering Human Capital Development
Opportunity
Increase supply chain transparency
Human Rights and labour 
standards across the 
value chain
Reputation
Influencing our Supply Chain; Sustainability 
Governance – Business and Human Rights
Invest into craftsmanship talent
Talent attraction and skill 
development
Resilience
Acting on Social Impact – 
Fostering Human Capital Development
Governance
Risk
Bribery, corruption or money 
laundering accusations
Governance, ethics 
and compliance
Policy 
and legal
Sustainability Governance – 
Promoting Transparency and Integrity
Unsupported environmental claims
Customer expectations 
and satisfaction
Policy 
and legal
Sustainability Governance – Maintaining 
the Trust of Clients and Stakeholders
Opportunity
Bring the Standards of Business 
Conduct to life
Governance, ethics 
and compliance
Policy 
and legal
Introduction – Standard of Business Conduct
Foster science based innovation
Customer expectations 
and satisfaction
Policy 
and legal
Sustainability Governance – Maintaining 
the Trust of Clients and Stakeholders
Examples of some relevant risks and opportunities are provided in the table below.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
20
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Introduction
Stakeholder 
Management
Listening to the needs of Richemont’s stakeholders and their 
expectations enables the Group to shape its approach to 
sustainability, taking their views into account.
Richemont regularly engages with its stakeholders in a variety of 
ways as outlined in the table below. Furthermore, the following 
chapters detail how the Group engages with different stakeholders 
on ESG topics and seeks to ensure meaningful engagement.
The Group has evolved and strengthened engagement 
processes and mapping for each stakeholder group throughout 
FY24. The Stakeholder Map below explains why and how 
Richemont engages with each category of stakeholder and links 
to their respective relevant material topics.
Stakeholder Map
Stakeholders
WHY we engage
HOW we engage 
MOST relevant material 
topics
Customers
To understand expectations 
of quality and ESG standards 
consistent with luxury purchases, 
and to support their relationship 
with the Maisons and 
requirements for a personalised 
customer experience
Boutiques networks, events, 
Watches and Wonders, Group 
publications, Maisons websites 
and social media
Customer expectations 
and satisfaction;
Product innovation and quality;
Data privacy and cybersecurity; 
Circular economy; 
Animal welfare
People
To support their wellbeing, 
health and safety, training, 
skills development, Diversity, 
Equity and Inclusion (DEI), fair 
working conditions
Internal communications, 
townhalls, events, 
training, annual reviews, 
#NeverStopLearning, Speak Up 
Platform, engagement surveys, 
Standards of Business Conduct, 
Human Rights Statement, 
Raw Materials Sourcing Policy, 
and other internal policies 
and statements
Talent attraction and skills 
development; Data privacy 
and cybersecurity; Health, 
safety and wellbeing in own 
operations; DEI; Hazardous 
chemicals; Human rights and 
labour standards across the 
value chain
Financial sector
To provide access to accurate 
and relevant information, to 
meet expectations on ESG 
disclosure and to comply 
with regulatory requirements
Regular dialogue with investors, 
analysts and shareholders, 
Annual General Meetings, 
investor roadshows, Richemont 
corporate website, Ratings 
agencies questionnaires, 
Annual Report and NonFinancial Report
All
Senior Management
To understand their strategic 
insights and to manage 
ESG-related risks and 
compliance requirements
Board of Directors, Committees, 
Taskforces, SEC, Townhalls, 
Annual Global Management 
Conference
All

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
21
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Introduction
Stakeholder Management continued
Stakeholders
WHY we engage
HOW we engage 
MOST relevant material 
topics
Business partners 
and suppliers
To provide support engagement 
and capacity building across 
the supply chain, and to ensure 
compliance with payment 
terms, contracts and Supplier 
Code of Conduct (SCoC)
Internal policies, SCoC, Human 
Rights Statement, Raw Material 
Sourcing Policy, Procurement 
Policies, Speak Up Platform, 
audits and on-site visits, industry 
certification bodies, RJC, 
prevention, mitigation and 
remediation action plans
Human rights and labour 
standards across the value 
chain; Transparency and 
traceability of raw materials; 
Climate, emissions and energy; 
Data privacy and cybersecurity; 
Social impact and community 
support; Water stewardship; 
Circular economy; Animal 
welfare; Biodiversity; Hazardous 
chemicals; Pollution; 
Stakeholder engagement; 
Waste management
Academic Partners
To provide support for 
preserving craftsmanship, 
creating pathways into the 
Maisons, and mentoring 
and coaching
Creative programmes in 
fashion, jewellery and 
watchmaking, such as Creative 
Academy and Scuola Orafa 
Ambrosiana, sponsorships and 
scholarships 
Talent attraction 
and skills development
Media
To build trust and credibility, 
to share consistent and 
fact-based information
Social media, Group and 
Maisons publications, Group 
and Maisons websites, 
relationships with the press
DEI; Human rights and labour 
standards across the value 
chain; Climate, emissions 
and energy
Civil society
To support local economies and 
communities, to have a positive 
impact on society, and to 
reduce environmental impact 
Support for local projects and 
charitable foundations, financial 
sponsorship, Group publications; 
Group, Maisons and 
Foundations websites, 
partnerships with NGOs and in 
the United Nations Global 
Compact (UNGC)
Biodiversity; Animal welfare; 
Human rights and labour 
standards across the value 
chain; Social impact and 
community support; Talent 
attraction and skills 
development
Regulatory 
bodies
To understand, observe and 
comply with current and 
upcoming laws and regulations
Publication of regulatory 
information and 
communications, dialogue with 
governments and international 
bodies (ILO, UNICEF), Group 
and Maison membership in 
fashion and luxury industry 
organisations
Governance ethics & 
compliance; Human rights 
and labour standards across 
the value chain; Biodiversity; 
Animal welfare; Pollution; 
Hazardous chemicals; Health, 
safety and wellbeing across 
the value chain; Data privacy 
and cybersecurity; Climate, 
emissions and energy; 
Waste management
Industry
To work with industry members 
and encourage cooperation 
on matters of public interest, 
to raise awareness of common 
issues, and to drive change 
Participation in industry groups 
and initiatives, involvement in 
specialist working groups, such 
as Leather Working Group 
(LWG), Coloured Gemstones 
Working Group (CGWG)
Since 2022, several Richemont’s 
Maisons are members of the 
Watch & Jewellery Initiative 
2030 (W&JI). This association 
aims to unite Watch & Jewellery 
industry players around 
Sustainability projects that 
deliver impact all along the 
value chain
Transparency and traceability 
of raw materials; Human rights 
and labour standards across 
the value chain; Governance, 
ethics and compliance; 
Customer expectations 
and satisfaction
Stakeholder Map continued

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
22
Acting on our 
Environmental 
Impact

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
23
Acting on our Environmental Impact
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Introduction
Richemont continually strives to manage and reduce the 
environmental impact from its operations and supply chains. The 
Group is strengthening its capacity to address the material 
environmental topics identified by the Materiality Assessment 
undertaken in FY23, which were further underpinned by the Group’s 
ESG Risk and Opportunity Assessment (ROA) conducted in FY24.
As an illustration of its commitment, in 2023, Richemont was 
recognised by the CDP for its environmental performance, 
receiving an A- score for climate change. The Group’s water 
security scored C in this year’s CDP assessment, in view of 
increasingly stringent expectations reflected in the updated 
Water Security 2023 Questionnaire. Further information is provided 
in the Freshwater Stewardship section. 
Richemont is also committed to reducing its greenhouse gas 
emissions in line with Science-Based Reduction Targets for 2025 
and 2030, which were validated by the Science Based Targets 
Initiative (SBTi) in 2021. The progress towards these targets is shown 
in the following table.
Targets & 2023 Performance*
BASE YEAR 2019
TARGET 2025
TARGET 2030
Increase annual sourcing of 
renewable electricity to 100%.
Reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 
GHG emissions by 46%.
20% of Richemont suppliers by 
emissions covering purchased 
goods and services and 
upstream transportation and 
distribution will have SBTs.
Reduce Scope 3 GHG emissions 
from purchased goods and 
services and business travel by 
55% per dollar value added.
63%**
9%**
161**
tCO2e/$m
60
ktCO2e
STATUS IN 2022
97%
15%**
144**
tCO2e/$m
19
ktCO2e
STATUS IN 2023
97%
18%
132
tCO2e/$m
19
ktCO2e
* 
Including YNAP    ** 
Restated figures
To ensure the appropriate level of oversight, the Chief Sustainability 
Officer supervises the management of environmental topics, 
supported by a dedicated in-house team. The Group’s 
Environmental Code of Conduct, together with the Supplier 
Code of Conduct (SCoC), set the expectations for employees, 
suppliers and business partners to continuously contribute to 
improving Richemont’s environmental performance.
This chapter provides an overview of Richemont’s activities and 
their potential impact on the environment. The environmental 
challenges the Group faces are outlined in the Climate Mitigation, 
Biodiversity Conservation and Freshwater Stewardship sections. 
The chapter further details the solutions that the Group is 
developing to address its environmental footprint and can be 
found in the respective sections: Pollution Prevention and Control; 
Responsible 
Resource 
Use; 
Buildings 
Efficiency; 
Energy 
Management; Circularity; Waste Management.
Overall, in the course of 2023, Richemont continued to manage 
its environmental impacts through the predominant use of 
renewable energy across its operations and as a result of 
 
an increasing proportion of suppliers in its supply chains having 
adopted SBT targets. Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions remained 
 
at last year levels, below the SBT target line. The intensity of 
 
Scope 3 emissions decreased mainly due to the Group’s 
 
business growth.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
24
Acting on our Environmental Impact
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Climate 
Mitigation
This section outlines the Group’s best efforts to mitigate its impact 
on climate by reducing emissions from its direct operations and its 
supply chains, while delivering on its Science Based Targets (SBTs).
Management Approach
As outlined in its Standards of Business Conduct, Richemont aims 
to reduce its GHG emissions in line with the SBTs validated in 2021. 
For Scope 3 emissions, the SCoC requires Richemont’s suppliers to 
measure, monitor and implement actions to reduce their GHG 
emissions.
The following diagram illustrates the material categories within 
Richemont’s Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, including upstream and 
downstream activities.
Richemont has been tracking its Scope 1, Scope 2, Scope 3.4 
(upstream transportation and distribution), and 3.6 (business 
travel) emissions for more than a decade. The carbon footprint 
across Richemont’s value chain has been measured since 2020 
(based on 2019 data in 2020) and the Group continues to assess 
this annually.
The Group set SBTs in line with a 1.5°C increase scenario and 
these were validated by the SBTi in 2021. After screening and 
assessing upstream and downstream activities, purchased goods 
and services (Scope 3.1), capital goods (Scope 3.2) and upstream 
transportation and distribution (Scope 3.4) were identified as the 
most material categories for Scope 3. More information on 
actions regarding Scope 3 emissions is available in the 
Performance section. Further details on the environmental 
reporting methodology are described in the separate document 
‘Basis of Preparation’.
Richemont has taken multiple steps to reduce its energy 
consumption and switch to renewable sources of electricity for its 
own operations. The vast majority of Richemont’s GHG emissions 
are Scope 3 and particularly upstream in the supply chain. Based 
on the identification of the most material Scope 3 categories, 
Richemont has been engaging with suppliers through the CDP 
Supply Chain Programme.
 
R E P O R T I N G
C O M P A N Y
D O W N S T R E A M
A C T I V I T I E S
U P S T R E A M
A C T I V I T I E S
S C O P E 1
D I R E C T
Company 
facilities
Company 
vehicles
Fugitive
emissions
 
S C O P E 3
I N D I R E C T
End-of-life
treatment of
sold products
Franchises
S C O P E 2
I N D I R E C T
Purchased 
electricity
 
 
S C O P E 3
I N D I R E C T
Purchased goods 
and services
Fuel & energy 
related activities
Waste generated
in operations
Employee 
commuting
Upstream 
transportation 
& distribution
Capital goods
Business travel
Purchased
steam, heat
& cooling
Overview of GHG Protocol Scopes and categories relevant to Richemont value chain

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
25
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Acting on our Environmental Impact
Climate Mitigation continued
Performance
Performance against SBTs
Richemont’s SBTs aim to reduce absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG 
emissions by 46% by 2030 from a 2019 base year. Within the same 
timeframe, Richemont is also targeting a reduction in Scope 3 
GHG emissions of 55% per dollar value added for purchased 
goods and services and business travel. The Group has committed 
to 20% of its suppliers by emissions (covering purchased goods 
and services and upstream transportation and distribution) 
having SBTs by 2025.
32 626*
19 353
19 431*
19 192*
17 207*
60 418*
2019
2020
2030
SBT 1.5°C trajectory
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
Scope 1 & 2 absolute target (tCO2e)
* 
Restated figure
72.6*
131.8
143.9*
130.3*
132.9*
161.4*
2019
2020
2030
SBT economic 
intensity trajectory
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
Scope 3 Economic Intensity target (tCO2e/$m)
* 
Restated figure
Richemont’s Scope 3 economic intensity 
emissions decreased by 18% compared to 
the 2019 base year. This intensity reduction 
is mainly related to the Group’s business 
growth during the last three years.
In 2023, Richemont decreased Scope 1 
and 2 absolute emissions by 68% compared 
to the 2019 base year, remaining stable 
compared to 2022 levels.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
26
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Acting on our Environmental Impact
Climate Mitigation continued
In 2023, 18% of Richemont suppliers, in terms of emissions covering 
purchased goods and services and upstream transportation and 
distribution, set SBTs, a gradual increase since 2019.
20%
18%
15%*
14%*
10%*
9%*
2019
2020
2025
2024
2021
2022
2023
Percentage of Scope 3 emissions related to purchased goods 
and services and upstream transportation and distribution 
suppliers that have set SBTs
* 
Restated figure
GHG Emissions Performance
In 2023, Richemont’s total GHG emissions amounted to 1 842 364 
tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents (tCO2e), a level slightly 
below 2022. Additional detailed data on GHG emissions 
performance can be found in the Environmental Data Set section 
at the end of this chapter.
Total GHG emissions by Scope
ktCO2e
CY2019
CY2022
CY2023 
Scope 1
15.8*
14.5*
15.0
Scope 2 
Market-Based
44.6*
4.9*
4.4
Scope 3
1 386.2*
1 923.1*
1 823.0
Total
1 446.6*
1 942.5*
1 842.4
* 
Restated figure

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
27
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Acting on our Environmental Impact
Climate Mitigation continued
Scope 1 emissions
In 2023, Richemont’s Scope 1 emissions increased by 3% 
compared to 2022. This is primarily due to an increase in the 
number of company vehicles.
Company vehicles account for 58% of Scope 1 emissions and 
GHG emissions from combustion engines have increased by 4%.
Company facilities represent the second largest category of 
Scope 1 emissions, accounting for 37%. These decreased by 2% 
compared to 2022, as a result of various energy saving measures 
(e.g. heating reduction, building isolation measures or heat 
recovery from manufacturing processes) outlined in the Buildings 
Efficiency section of this chapter.
Fugitive emissions currently contribute 5% of the Group’s Scope 1, 
up from 4% in 2022.
It should be noted that a recalculation of Scope 1 past year 
emissions was performed in relation to 2022 fugitive emissions 
figures, as a result of a refined data collection.
Scope 1 tCO2e by year and by category
15 836*
14 522*
14 962
4%
5%
59%
57%
58%
41%
39%
37%
2019
baseline
2022
2023
* 
Restated figure
  Fugitive emissions
  Company vehicles
  Company facilities
Scope 2 emissions
Scope 2 market-based GHG emissions decreased by 11% 
compared to 2022. The table shows that Scope 2 emissions are 
split between purchased electricity and thermal networks, 
encompassing heat, steam, or cooling from district plants.
Purchased electricity represents 77% of Scope 2 market-based 
emissions 
with 
purchased 
heating, 
cooling 
and 
steam 
representing the remaining portion.
Detailed information on measures taken by the Group to reduce 
its electricity consumption and switch to renewable sources 
 
is described in the Energy Management and Buildings 
 
Efficiency subsections of the Working to Address Environmental 
Challenges section.
It should be noted that a recalculation of Scope 2 past year 
emissions was performed to correct an electricity amount in 
2022 and to integrate supplier specific emission factors for thermal 
district networks for all years.
Scope 2 tCO2e by year and by category
CY2019
CY2022
CY2023 
% electricity
97%
83%
77%
% heating, cooling and steam
3%
17%
23%
Total Scope 2 tCO2e
44 582*
4 909*
4 391
* 
Restated figure

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
28
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Acting on our Environmental Impact
Scope 3 emissions
Scope 3 emissions represent 99% of total GHG emissions, with the 
majority coming from purchased goods and services.
Scope 3 emissions by category
At 77%, purchased goods and services account for the largest 
part of the Group’s Scope 3 emissions. The next two largest 
emission categories are upstream transportation and distribution 
and capital goods, which each account for 7% of Scope 3 
emissions. The remaining Scope 3 categories represent less than
9% of the total Scope 3 emissions. In 2023, Scope 3 GHG 
emissions increased by 32% compared to the 2019 base year 
but decreased by 5% compared to the previous year. 
A breakdown of these emissions is provided below.
It should be noted that a recalculation of Scope 3 past year 
emissions was performed, incorporating Well-to-Wheel emission 
factors for Scopes 3.4 and 3.6, using an improved emission 
factor for sapphire glass and restating waste and raw material 
figures from 2022.
Scope 3 emissions by category
ktCO2e
CY2019
CY2022
CY2023
Total Scope 3
1 386.2*
1 923.1*
1 823.0
Purchased goods and services
988.8*
1 476.6*
1 395.3
Capital goods
72.2
130.4*
131.9
Fuel and energy-related activities
12.9
19.3*
20.0
Upstream transportation and distribution
186.9*
193.9*
133.1
Waste generated in operations
3.3*
1.5
2.1
Business travel
64.9*
47.2*
86.4
Employee commuting
32.5
25.8
26.1
End-of-life treatment of sold products
2.7*
5.5*
4.9
Franchises
22.1
22.9
23.2
* 
Restated figures
Actions on Scope 3
Scope 3.1 Purchased goods and services
Emissions from purchased goods and services decreased by 6%.
The majority of Richemont’s watchmaking Maisons conducted 
lifecycle assessments to identify emission hotspots. As an example, 
based on this assessment result, to reduce their carbon 
 
footprint Panerai decided to have a portion of the sapphire glass 
 
needed for their creations manufactured using low carbon 
electricity sources.
Scope 3.2 Capital goods
Emissions from capital goods increased by 1% compared to 2022, 
driven by investments growth.
Scope 3.4 Upstream transportation and distribution
A Group level project on Point of Sales Materials (POSM) and 
packaging was implemented to reduce CO2e emissions by 
continuously looking for alternative modes of transport and 
packaging innovation.
In 2023, upstream transportation and distribution declined by 
31% compared to 2022. This is mainly the result of a shift from air 
freight to shipping by sea and lower volumes observed in 
certain product categories.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
29
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Acting on our Environmental Impact
Richemont is developing its understanding of ecosystem impacts 
and dependencies it has on ecosystem services provided 
 
by nature.
This section describes the Group’s approach to biodiversity 
conservation, and its methodology in risk screening, assessment 
and mitigation.
Management Approach
The Group’s Environmental Code of Conduct and Supplier 
Code  of Conduct set out principles that guide biodiversity 
management practices. Furthermore, the SCoC explicitly requires 
suppliers to prevent and mitigate their impact on biodiversity.
Biodiversity upskilling has been a focus for the Governance and 
Sustainability Committee of the Board with training held in 
November 2023. This session elaborated on the five pressures 
(land-use and land-use change; natural resource use and 
exploitation; climate change; pollution; and invasive alien 
species) on biodiversity loss and its interdependence with climate 
change and human rights.
The Group complies with international and local regulations and 
aligns with the Convention on International Trade in Endangered 
Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES). Richemont has put in 
place an internal database that lists the trade protection status 
of all animal and plant species in its supply chain (e.g., trade bans 
and other trade limitations), as well as other types of compulsory 
requirements, such as labelling on derivative products.
In 2021, the Group joined the International Crocodilian Farmers 
Association (ICFA), which sets standards for crocodilian farming 
practices. Additional details are provided in the Leather section 
of the Influencing our Supply Chain chapter.
Biodiversity Screening
Richemont conducted an initial biodiversity screening to 
determine the Group’s biodiversity impact and identify high 
priority risks and opportunities across its supply chains. This analysis 
primarily concentrated on the most sourced commodities. 
It evaluated the potential impacts on biodiversity and ecosystems, 
based on the five pressures that cause biodiversity loss.
Land-use Assessment
In June 2023, based on the results of the above-mentioned 
biodiversity screening, Richemont conducted a footprint analysis 
to estimate the land-use of the Group’s supply chain. This was 
carried out in partnership with external biodiversity experts using 
the Biodiversity Extent Condition and Significance (BECS) 
methodology. Results indicated that the largest land-use impacts 
come 
from 
agri-based 
materials, 
in 
particular 
livestock 
commodities. Materials mined by third parties represent a smaller 
part of the land-use footprint.
Actions on our Direct Operations
In early 2024, Richemont conducted a risk assessment of its 
owned sites, including office buildings and manufacturing 
facilities. It helped identify next steps in direct operations with 
regards to the sites’ impact on biodiversity and to determine 
opportunities to protect or restore ecosystems.
Some sites have already taken actions, such as Richemont’s 
Villars-sur-Glâne campus, where a biologist oversaw the planting 
of 2 000 square metres of grassland. Richemont has four Swiss sites 
that are certified by the Nature & Economy Foundation, which 
awards companies that make an important contribution to the 
preservation of natural biodiversity and quality of life, particularly 
in industrial and commercial areas. IWC Schaffhausen received 
its certification in September 2023.
Beyond our direct operations, in September 2022, IWC 
Schaffhausen launched the pilot phase of a ‘Posidonia restoration’ 
project that supports pioneering scientific experimental methods 
to help engineer the recovery of the marine ecosystem in Costa 
Brava, Spain.
Biodiversity 
Conservation

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
30
Acting on our Environmental Impact
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Richemont is committed to responsible water management 
practices as it relies on freshwater at multiple stages of its supply 
chain, such as during extraction, refining, production, product 
use and product end of life.
This section describes the approach to water management and 
provides an assessment of water-related risks throughout the 
business and the water stewardship efforts undertaken to ensure 
responsible planning and management of water resources.
Management Approach
The Environmental Code of Conduct guides the Group’s 
approach on water and enables enhanced management of 
water-related risks in its operations, while the SCoC requires all the 
Group’s suppliers to follow sustainable water management 
practices. These practices include collecting and recording 
water withdrawal data, establishing plans and targets to reduce 
consumption, as well as treating waste water to respect local 
legislation, prevent pollution and minimise adverse impacts on 
the local community.
The Group’s water stewardship efforts are focused on operations 
under its direct control, such as offices, manufactures, 
 
warehouses, boutiques, and services centres. Most of the water 
consumption in Richemont’s direct operations occurs in locations 
which are not affected by water stress. A large quantity of surface 
water withdrawn is returned to its source, after being used to 
improve the energy efficiency of some of the Group’s 
manufacturing sites in Switzerland.
The majority of the Group’s water withdrawal comes from facilities 
located in Italy, France and Switzerland, where high-quality 
freshwater is readily available with minimal treatment. Although 
this has a relatively low environmental impact in areas with low 
levels of water stress today, the Group has been monitoring its 
water withdrawal for several years. Specifically, the Group has 
conducted a study using three different measures (water stress, 
water depletion, and blue water scarcity) with open data 
sources, such as the WRI Aqueduct, to identify the number and 
type of owned buildings (offices, manufactures, warehouses, 
boutiques, and services centres) located in water stressed areas. 
This approach follows the State of Nature (SoN) assessment 
methodology for water availability.
Water safety compliance is assessed through the same platform 
as the Group’s other Health, Safety and Environmental (HSE) 
requirements, see the Acting on our Social Impact chapter for 
more  details. Local legislation guides the monitoring of water 
withdrawals and discharges. In the event of a water-related 
incident, thorough investigations are conducted and any 
appropriate remedial actions taken.
Performance
In 2023, water withdrawals increased by 30% in absolute quantities 
compared to 2022. This increase concerns all sources of water 
used at Richemont. The Group collects freshwater withdrawal 
separately from different types of reservoirs, including:
 
– Municipal water, provided by the city;
 
– Ground water, held in aquifers and that can be recovered 
from an underground formation;
 
– Surface water, occurring naturally on the Earth’s surface in 
lakes, rainwater, rivers and streams;
 
– Produced water, entering the Group’s scope because of 
extraction, processing or any use of raw material, and 
 
therefore must be managed by the business.
The largest quantity of withdrawals comes from surface waters as 
several of Richemont’s manufactures in Switzerland withdraw 
water from nearby rivers with the sole purpose of extracting 
calories through a heat pump. All this water is immediately sent 
back to its source. Most freshwater withdrawals for other types of 
uses in the Group’s activities originate from municipal water.
Freshwater 
Stewardship

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
31
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Acting on our Environmental Impact
Freshwater Stewardship continued
Water withdrawal by source in cubic metres
Water source (m3)
CY2019
CY2022
CY2023
Municipal water
621 049
652 859
801 060
Groundwater
396 892*
297 376*
460 278
Surface water
1 525 069*
1 132 021*
1 437 225
Produced water
n/a**
n/a**
0
Sea water
n/a**
0
0
Total water withdrawal
2 543 010*
2 082 256*
2 698 563
* 
Restated figures
** n/a refers to the unavailability of data during the reporting period
It should be noted that a recalculation of past water withdrawals 
was performed to account for surface water withdrawals used 
for heating and cooling purposes.
In addition to measuring its water withdrawal, the Group 
evaluated the water risk of its own operations. The majority of 
Richemont’s 
own 
sites 
are 
located 
in 
Switzerland, 
 
with the Rhine and the Rhône as the main river basins.
Only 2% of Richemont’s water withdrawals occur in buildings 
located in ‘high’ or ‘extremely high’ level of baseline water stress 
(>40% baseline water stress). Water stress areas have been 
assessed using the World Resources Institute (Aqueduct Water 
Risk Atlas) indicator and threshold. In addition to the Group-level 
efforts, several Maisons are implementing their own measures to 
preserve water.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
32
Acting on our Environmental Impact
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Pollution Prevention and Control
Richemont recognises that the responsible management of 
emissions and discharges is an important element of sustainable 
environmental practices. This section describes the approach 
taken to minimise air or water pollution.
Management Approach
Richemont’s 
Standards 
of 
Business 
Conduct 
outline 
its 
commitment to pollution prevention and control at its operational 
sites. The Group’s suppliers are also encouraged to adopt a 
proactive approach to minimise air emissions and water 
discharges of pollutants.
Pursuant to the above and given that Richemont is subject to 
regulations and mandatory standards associated with the use of 
chemicals worldwide, the Group has dedicated teams for the 
responsible management of hazardous chemicals, namely 
Health, Safety and Environment (Group HSE) and the Chemical 
Competence Center (CCC). 
Performance
Air Emissions
In 2023, the Group started to collect data on Non-Methane 
Volatile Organic Compound (NMVOC) emissions associated with 
the use of various fossil fuels and solvents, recognising the harmful 
effect of tropospheric ozone formation which these NMVOC 
emissions can trigger. In 2023, the Group emitted 119 tonnes of 
NMVOC, 68% of which were generated by the combustion of 
fossil fuels, while the rest was emitted through industrial processes.
Even though Richemont’s manufactures do not generate large 
amounts of Nitrous Oxides (NOx), the Group monitors these 
emissions 
generated 
by 
fossil 
fuel 
combustion 
across 
 
its operations. In 2023, 58 625 kg of NOx was generated 
 
across Richemont operations.
Working to Address 
Environmental 
Challenges
Water Treatment
Most of Richemont’s manufacturing activities include machining 
and assembly operations and do not normally generate large 
amounts of industrial water effluents. Wherever the Group has 
more intensive operations, it has installed local wastewater 
treatment plants to mitigate any potential negative impacts 
before releasing the treated wastewater to the local district 
wastewater treatment unit.
In addition, Richemont pays particular attention to wastewater 
management across its supply chains. For example, for tanneries, 
the Group requires suppliers to have Leather Working Group 
(LWG) certification. Further details are described in the Leather 
Supply Chain section of Influencing our Supply Chain chapter.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
33
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Acting on our Environmental Impact
Working to Address Environmental Challenges continued
Responsible Resource Use
Richemont’s product portfolio relies on various non-renewable 
(e.g. metals, non-metal minerals) as well as renewable materials 
(e.g. wood, leather or cotton). The Group acknowledges that 
these resources need to  be used in a responsible manner in 
its activities.
Management Approach
Richemont’s Environmental Code of Conduct outlines the 
commitment to monitoring resource consumption and managing 
resource-related risks. The SCoC also emphasises the need for 
suppliers to continuously minimise their resource consumption.
Performance
Richemont has identified a list of critical raw materials, itself a 
subset of the EU list of critical materials and the US list of critical 
materials. These are defined as raw materials of high economic 
importance for its activities that are at a potential risk of supply 
disruption, due to their geological reserves, and lack of good, 
affordable substitutes. These materials include copper, nickel, 
palladium, platinum group metals, titanium metal, tungsten 
 
and zinc.
The Group has implemented measures to reduce risks associated 
with these critical materials, such as keeping them in circulation 
longer while implementing responsible sourcing practices.
Buildings Efficiency
Richemont has an extensive real  estate portfolio covering 
approximately 
1.2 
million 
square 
metres, 
with 
around 
 
1 500 buildings globally, including more than 1 300 boutiques 
directly operated by the Group, multiple offices, manufacturing 
sites, customer service centres and logistics platforms. It is a 
priority for the Group to ensure these buildings operate efficiently. 
This section describes how Richemont manages its portfolio and 
third-party certifications of the buildings.
Management Approach
Richemont improves the environmental performance of the 
buildings in Richemont’s portfolio, based on two complementary 
approaches: The Green Building Scorecard and international 
and national building certification standards.
The Green Building Scorecard is a self-assessment tool, developed 
internally, covering a range of factors such as urban integration, 
energy consumption, environment, waste, water use and employee 
wellbeing. Facility managers can use this tool to assess the strengths 
and the opportunities for improvement at a building level.
Richemont 
pursues 
internationally 
recognised 
building 
certifications, including LEED New Construction, LEED Operations 
and Maintenance or BREEAM. In some cases, nationally 
recognised certifications are considered, such as Minergie, SNBS 
or Fondation Nature & Economie in Switzerland, or local standards, 
namely SméO in the canton of Vaud.
Performance
The Green Building Scorecard rates four distinct levels of 
performance: Assessed, Silver, Gold and Diamond. For instance, 
more than half of Richemont’s manufacturing sites have already 
reached the Gold level.
To date 22% of the buildings owned by the Group are certified in 
accordance with one of the international, national or local 
standards mentioned above.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
34
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Acting on our Environmental Impact
Working to Address Environmental Challenges continued
In FY24, Cartier has achieved LEED certifications for over 
 
100 
boutiques, 
of 
which 
83 
are 
minimum 
gold 
level. 
 
Additionally, Cartier’s manufacturing site in Turin, Italy, and 
Cartier’s office in Lafayette, Paris, have respectively achieved 
LEED Platinum and LEED Gold certifications.
Multiple Maisons have also taken action to advance sustainable 
operations in their buildings. For example: Jaeger-LeCoultre has 
insulated 286 m2 of the roof of its manufacture with cellulose fibre 
and a fabric-reinforced vapour barrier, to save an estimated 
52  MWh of heating per year; Van Cleef & Arpels is driving a 
circularity pilot, collecting waste data from the demolition of its 
Heritage 1881 Boutique in Hong Kong SAR, China, where seven 
tonnes of loose fixtures, representing 68% of the total waste, were 
salvaged to be reused or recycled.
By installing photovoltaic panels, several sites are also switching 
to self-generated solar energy in addition to their continued 
effort to purchase renewable electricity.
7
10
11
4
3
5
1
9
6
CARTIER, 
La Chaux-de-Fonds, Switzerland, 
Manufacture
LEED-certified – O+M: Gold
CARTIER, 
La Chaux-de-Fonds, Switzerland, 
Maison des Métiers d’Arts Cartier
LEED-certified – O+M: Platinum
CARTIER, 
Glovelier, Switzerland, Manufacture
LEED-certified – O+M: Gold
RICHEMONT, 
Meyrin, Switzerland, Offices
Minergie New Construction: 
Minergie Eco
Other: Fondation Nature & economie
RICHEMONT, 
Villars sur Glâne, Switzerland, Offices
Other: Fondation Nature & economie
IWC SCHAFFHAUSEN, 
Schaffhausen, Switzerland, 
Manufacture
Other: Fondation Nature & economie
1
2
3
4
5
6
Map of the Locations 
with Building Standards
S W I T Z E R L A N D
12
8
Netherlands
Switzerland
Italy
JAEGER-LECOULTRE, 
Le Sentier, Switzerland, Manufacture
Minergie New Construction: Minergie
RICHEMONT, 
Amsterdam, Netherlands, Offices
BREEAM: In use Very Good
VACHERON CONSTANTIN, 
Le Brassus, Switzerland, Manufacture
Other: SméO, Fondation Nature 
& economie
VACHERON CONSTANTIN, 
Plan-les-Ouates, Switzerland, 
Manufacture
Minergie New Construction: Minergie
CARTIER, 
Le Locle, Switzerland, Manufacture
LEED-certified – O+M: Gold
CARTIER, 
Turin, Italy, Manufacture
LEED New Construction: Platinum
7
8
9
10
11
12
2

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
35
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Acting on our Environmental Impact
Working to Address Environmental Challenges continued
Energy Management
This section describes how Richemont manages energy 
consumption in its activities while considering the prioritisation of 
renewable energy and energy efficiency gains.
Management Approach
Richemont’s Standards of Business Conduct outlines the 
 
Group’s commitment to minimising its energy usage. The Group’s 
SCoC requires suppliers to monitor their energy consumption 
 
and to demonstrate their use of an increasing share of 
 
renewable energy.
Since February 2021, Richemont has been a member of RE100 
and has committed to sourcing 100% renewable electricity by no 
later than 2025.
The Group monitors the energy usage of its owned facilities, 
including offices, boutiques, manufacturing sites, customer 
service and distribution centres. Where those are rented or 
leased, actual energy consumption figures are used where 
available. If unavailable, estimates are calculated based on the 
surface area, using US Energy Information Administration (EIA) 
statistical data. Richemont also monitors the energy consumption 
from its fleet of combustion engine vehicles.
Renewable energy usage is prioritised in facilities where the 
Group has control over its energy mix. This includes investment in 
self-generated (on-site) energy, such as photovoltaic solar 
panels, heat pumps and geothermal plants, or switching to 
renewable energy options provided by local utilities.
In facilities where the Group does not have direct control over its 
energy mix, landlords are encouraged to switch to renewable 
sources of energy and take energy saving measures.
Performance
Energy Consumption
Total energy consumption for 2023 was 325 GWh, an increase of 
1% compared to 2022, mostly due to an improvement in data 
completeness for heating, cooling, and steam, and an increase 
in the number of company vehicles. 26% of Richemont’s energy 
consumption comes from non-renewable sources, of which 44% 
comes from company vehicles. The second source of nonrenewable energy is natural gas 30%, with the highest usage in 
Europe of 57%, where the Group’s largest sites are located.
This year, renewable energy consumption steadily rose by 
0.3 GWh, while the proportion of renewable energy consumption 
slightly decreased by 1% of the total consumption.
Total energy consumption
GWh
CY2019
CY2022
CY2023
Energy consumption from 
non-renewable sources
173*
79*
84
Energy consumption from 
renewable sources
153*
241*
241
Total energy consumption
326*
320*
325
Group Energy intensity 
(GWh/€m sales)
0.02*
0.01*
0.01
* 
Restated figures
Renewable Energy Sources
74% of Richemont’s energy consumption comes from renewable 
sources. The majority use of renewable energy is in Europe, 
accounting for 70% of the total. Manufacturing accounts for the 
largest proportion building related energy at 39%, closely followed 
by the many Maisons’ boutiques at 24%.
Richemont uses the following renewable energy sources:
 
– biomass and biogas;
 
– purchased or acquired electricity both from contracts with 
electricity suppliers and procurement of unbundled Energy 
Attribute Certificates (EACs); and
 
– self-generated non-fuel renewable energy (including solar, 
geothermal, heat pumps).

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
36
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Acting on our Environmental Impact
Working to Address Environmental Challenges continued
Renewable Electricity
Good progress has been made since the Group joined RE100 in 
2021, with 97% of sourced electricity being renewable in 2023, 
 
the same level as in 2022. It includes electricity purchased from 
retail supply contract mainly providing hydropower (63%), 
unbundled procurement of EACs (33%), and self-generated 
electricity 
such 
as 
on-site 
solar 
facilities 
(1%). 
On-site 
 
self-generated production of solar electricity continued to 
increase. A total of 15 Richemont sites, including offices and 
manufacturing sites, produced photovoltaic solar electricity in 
calendar year 2023. This increased the Group’s self-generated 
solar electricity by 7%, compared to last year.
Examples of this include:
 
– Richemont campus in Villars-Sur-Glâne, Switzerland: Increase 
of solar electricity generated on site with the installation of 660 
m2 photovoltaic panels in addition to the existing 1 390 m2 
installed in 2022. The campus has an estimated annual 
production of 120 000 kWh (representing 1% of its annual 
consumption);
 
– Cartier: In 2023, Cartier opened its new Jewellery Manufacture 
in Turin. The site was designed to reduce its environmental 
footprint 
(LEED 
Platinum) 
integrating 
onsite 
electricity 
production with 3 800 m2 of solar panels for an annual 
production of 800 000 kWh; and
 
– Cartier: the Maison financed the acquisition of a hydroelectric 
power plant in Italy to produce an average of 3.2 GWh annual 
renewable electricity. This participates in the production of 
local renewable electricity.
Thermal District Networks
The Group also purchases heating, cooling and steam from 
district networks or thermal plants outside of Richemont’s facilities. 
Most of this energy typically comes from renewable sources (such 
as wood chips and municipal waste incineration), although the 
district may occasionally rely on fossil fuels. Therefore, this option 
is not considered as renewable energy.
Energy Efficiency
Further progress was made in 2023 on reducing energy usage 
and improving efficiency while maintaining production levels. 
The rollout of energy efficiency measures such as heating 
temperature reduction or switching lighting to LED solutions in the 
Group’s own buildings continued throughout the year. As a result, 
the total building energy consumption of those owned sites 
decreased by 6%, mostly driven by the reduction in heating oil 
and natural gas consumption.
Examples of energy efficiency measures include those undertaken 
at Richemont’s Campus in Meyrin, Switzerland, whereby reducing 
heating by 1 degree and increasing cooling by 1 degree resulted 
in a 10% reduction in overall electricity consumption, in the period 
of April to November 2023, compared to the same period in 2022.
A further example is one of Richemont’s manufacturing 
competence 
centres 
in 
Fleurier, 
Val-de-Travers 
 
Switzerland achieving ISO 50001:2018 Energy Management 
System certification.
Percentage of electricity sourced by type in 2023
97%
Renewable
electricity
  Purchased renewable electricity (GWh)
149.6
  EACs (GWh)
80.1
  Self-generated electricity (GWh)
2.1
  Standard electricity (GWh)
6.7

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
37
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Acting on our Environmental Impact
Working to Address Environmental Challenges continued
Circularity
Richemont’s products are renowned for their longevity and 
repairability
. Jewellery and watches are often passed down from 
one generation to the next, with after-sale service and repair 
facilities essential to extend product life. This section outlines the 
Group’s commitment to circularity which extends beyond the 
durability of its products to include design, materials, packaging, 
servicing and repair.
Management Approach
The international network of Richemont’s customer service is 
central to extending product life, performing more than one 
million maintenance and repair interventions per year. In 2023, 
the majority of in-house repairs involved watches that were more 
than 15 years old and the majority of the Group’s watchmaking 
Maisons provide services to restore very old timepieces. The 
Group’s SCoC encourages suppliers to ensure the circular use of 
raw materials.
Understanding material inflows, product outflows and releases of 
substances to the environment from cradle to cradle is essential 
to building a more circular economy. The environmental impact 
of Richemont products is evaluated through multi-criteria Product 
Lifecycle Assessments (LCA) following the ISO 14040/14044 
standards and the Product Environmental Footprint (PEF) 
recommendations from the European Commission. The Group’s 
product design teams rely on these evaluations to identify 
hotspots and explore alternative solutions through circular 
economy practices and eco-design choices.
Performance
The Group’s Research & Innovation team has created the Circle 
Material platform that helps put unused stock to use by sharing 
the different types of leather and textile that are in stock but not 
used by a Maison and thus available to others for prototyping, gift 
developments or other usage.
Similarly to its jewellery and watchmaking creations, fashion and 
accessories’ products are equally designed to the highest quality 
standards to ensure durability. Most Maisons provide repair as 
part of their after-sales service.
To effectively manage the end-of-life of their point-of-sale 
materials and with the goal of reducing incineration and 
eliminating landfill, internal guidelines have been published to 
enable Maisons and distribution centres to reuse, upcycle, 
recycle and recover.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
38
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Acting on our Environmental Impact
Working to Address Environmental Challenges continued
Waste Management
Richemont generates waste from its manufacturing sites, 
distribution centres, offices, and boutiques across the world. 
 
This section describes how it classifies and measures this waste 
and monitors progress in managing, reducing, and recycling 
waste material.
Management Approach
As described in the Standards of Business Conduct and 
Environmental Code of Conduct, Richemont aims to minimise 
waste in its own operations. Suppliers are also encouraged to 
identify significant sources of waste and manage the identified 
waste responsibly.
The Group’s distribution centres account for the highest proportion 
of waste generated (mostly domestic waste) followed by 
manufactures (mostly special industrial waste). Offices, boutiques, 
and customer service centres generate domestic waste to a 
lesser extent. Where generated, hazardous waste is identified 
separately and treated in accordance with international and 
local regulations.
The use of hazardous chemicals is carefully managed to mitigate 
potential environmental harm including the creation of a Product 
Restrictive Substance List (PRSL), a living document restricting the 
use of chemicals in products at a safe level by the Group’s 
Chemical Competence Center. In addition, the Group’s Chemical 
Management Framework sets out the standards for the safe and 
responsible management of chemicals used in the workplace.
Performance
2023 Waste quantity by disposal method split between hazardous and non-hazardous
CY2022
CY2023
Tonnes
Hazardous
Non-hazardous
Total
Hazardous
Non-hazardous
Total
Composting
0
120
120
0
174
174
Recovery for recycling
579*
6 632
7 211*
609
5 810
6 419
Total waste diverted from disposal
579*
6 752
7 332*
609
5 984
6 593
Incineration with energy recovery
578
3 410
3 988
537
6 325
6 863
Incineration without energy recovery
50
321
371
99
286
384
Landfilling
117
753
870
182
887
1 069
Undefined
296*
1 099
1 395*
406
1 936
2 342
Total waste directed to disposal
1 041*
5 582
6 623
1 223
9 434
10 657
Total waste generated
1 621*
12 334
13 955*
1 832
15 418
17 250
* 
Restated figures
In 2023, Richemont reported 17 250 tonnes of waste, a 24% increase 
compared to the previous year, mainly due to improved data 
accuracy, categorisation and reporting scope. Overall, 62% of 
the waste is directed to disposal (the majority being incinerated 
with energy recovery) while 38% is diverted from disposal (the 
majority being sent for recycling).
Examples of initiatives to reduce and manage waste undertaken 
by Maisons include the work of the Campus Genevois de Haute 
Horlogerie in Meyrin in conjunction the Services Industriels de 
Genève (SIG) to assess its recycling channels. This contributed to 
an estimated overall recycling rate of 66% for 2023.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
39
Acting on our Environmental Impact
Environmental 
Data Set

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
40
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Acting on our Environmental Impact
Environmental Data Set continued
GHG Emissions Performance
Table 1: Group GHG footprint by segment and by Scope (GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3)
ktCO2e
Total CY2023
Scope 1
Scope 2
Scope 3
Jewellery Maisons
739.0
3.0
1.9
734.1
Specialist Watchmakers
178.9
2.3
0.7
176.0
Online Distributors
378.6
1.6
0.0
376.9
Fashion & Accessories
358.2
1.7
1.2
355.3
Corporate
187.7
6.4
0.6
180.7
Total
1 842.4
15.0
4.4
1 823.0
Table 2: Group GHG footprint by Scope and category (GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4)
ktCO2e
CY2019
CY2020
CY2021
CY2022
CY2023
Total
1 446.6*
1 212.5*
1 554.8*
1 942.5*
1 842.4
Scope 1
15.8*
11.5*
13.3
14.5*
15.0
Scope 2
44.6*
5.7
5.9*
4.9*
4.4
Scope 3
1 386.2*
1 195.3*
1 535.6*
1 923.1*
1 823.0
Scope 3 per calculated category
Purchased goods and services
988.8*
887.1*
1 220.6*
1 476.6*
1 395.3
Capital goods
72.2
122.1
70.8
130.4*
131.9
Fuel and energy related activities
12.9*
13.2*
37.8*
19.3*
20.0
Upstream transportation and distribution
186.9*
126.5*
155.6*
193.9*
133.1
Waste generated in operations
3.3*
1.0*
2.2*
1.5
2.1
Business travel
64.9*
11.0*
12.7*
47.2*
86.4
Employee commuting
32.5
8.6
8.5
25.8
26.1
End-of-Life treatment of sold products
2.7*
2.4*
3.8*
5.5*
4.9
Franchises
22.1
23.2
23.5
22.9
23.2
Group emissions intensity (ktCO2e/€m sales)
0.10*
0.09*
0.08*
0.09*
0.08
* 
Restated figures
Table 3: Scope 1 – Biogenic emissions (GRI 305-1 c)
tCO2e
CY2019
CY2020
CY2021
CY2022
CY2023
Biogas
n/a**
n/a**
1.66*
1.09
1.07
* 
Restated figure
** n/a refers to unavailability of data during the reporting period
Table 4: Scope 2 – Location-based emissions (GRI 305-2 a)
ktCO2e
CY2019
CY2020
CY2021
CY2022
CY2023
Scope 2 – location-based
68.5*
56.8*
59.1*
58.0*
60.7
* 
Restated figures

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
41
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Acting on our Environmental Impact
Environmental Data Set continued
Energy Performance
Table 5: Energy consumption from non-renewable sources (GRI 302-1)
MWh
CY2019
CY2020
CY2021
CY2022
CY2023
Fuel
49 368*
29 538*
35 228*
38 830*
39 874
Natural gas
28 558*
27 892*
25 039
24 458
25 230
LPG
0
0
1 303
709
569
Non-renewable electricity
88 053*
12 328*
14 971
8 234
6 745
Heating, cooling, steam
7 005*
9 362*
8 169*
7 207*
11 096
Total non-renewable energy
172 983*
79 120*
84 710*
79 439*
83 514
Non renewable energy intensity (mWh/€m sales)
12*
6*
4*
4*
4
* 
Restated figures
Table 6: Energy consumption from renewable sources (GRI 302-1)
MWh
CY2019
CY2020
CY2021
CY2022
CY2023
Biogas
0
0
7 523
4 955
4 865
Self-generated solar
1 640
1 336
1 234
1 946
2 077
Geothermal
0
0
3 782
2 021
1 931
Renewable electricity
150 719*
194 775*
211 236*
230 418*
229 809
Other**
249
2 201
393*
1 568*
2 523
Total renewable energy
152 608*
198 312*
224 168*
240 908*
241 205
Renewable energy intensity (mWh/€m sales)
11*
15*
12*
11*
11
* 
Restated figures
** Heating and cooling from groundwater and heat pump
Table 7: Energy sold (GRI 302-1)
MWh
CY2019
CY2020
CY2021
CY2022
CY2023
Sold solar electricity
n/a*
n/a*
272
268
267
* 
n/a refers to unavailability of data during the reporting period
Water Performance
Table 8: Water withdrawal (GRI 303-3)
m3
CY2019
CY2020
CY2021
CY2022
CY2023
Municipal water
621 049
587 662*
724 858*
652 859
801 060
Ground water
396 892*
231 502*
397 128*
297 376*
460 278
Surface water
1 525 069*
1 265 869*
1 223 443*
1 132 021*
1 437 225
Produced water
n/a**
n/a**
n/a**
n/a**
0
Sea water
n/a**
n/a**
n/a**
0
0
Total water withdrawal
2 543 010*
2 085 032*
2 345 429*
2 082 256*
2 698 563
Water intensity (m3/€m sales)
179*
159*
122*
93*
118
* 
Restated figures
** n/a refers to unavailability of data during the reporting period

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
42
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Acting on our Environmental Impact
Environmental Data Set continued
Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
‘CDP 2023’ refers to Richemont’s Response to the CDP Climate Change 2023 Questionnaire.
Governance
1
Describe the Board’s oversight 
of climate-related risks and 
opportunities.
CDP 2023: C1.1a, C1.1b 
Non-Financial Report 2024: Introduction – ESG Management System, 
ESG Risk Management
2
Describe management’s role 
in assessing and managing 
climate- related risks and 
opportunities.
CDP 2023: C1.2 
Non-Financial Report 2024: Introduction – ESG Management System, 
Materiality Assessment, ESG Risk Management; Acting on our Environmental 
Impact – Introduction; Influencing our Supply Chain – Introduction
Strategy
3
Describe the climate-related 
risks and opportunities the 
organisation has identified over 
the short, medium and long term.
CDP 2023: C2.1a, C2.2, C2.3, C2.3a, C2.4, C2.4a 
Non-Financial Report 2024: Introduction – ESG Risk Management
4
Describe the impact of climaterelated risks and opportunities 
on the organisation’s business, 
strategy and financial planning.
CDP 2023: C2.1b, C2.3a, C2.4a, C3.1, C3.2a, C3.2b, C3.3, C3.4 
Non-Financial Report 2024: Introduction – Materiality Assessment; 
ESG Risk Management
5
Describe the resilience of the 
organisation’s strategy, taking 
into consideration different 
climate-related scenarios, 
including a 2 degree C or 
lower scenario.
CDP 2023: C3.2, C3.2a, C3.2b 
Non-Financial Report 2024: Acting on our Environmental Impact – 
Climate Mitigation
Risk management
6
Describe the organisation’s 
processes for identifying and 
assessing climate-related risks.
CDP 2023: C1.2, C2.1, C2.1a, C2.2, C2.2a 
Non-Financial Report 2024: Introduction – ESG Management System, 
Materiality Assessment, ESG Risk Management; Acting on our Environmental 
Impact; Influencing our Supply Chain – Introduction
7
Describe the organisation’s 
processes for managing climaterelated risks.
CDP 2023: C2.1, C2.2 
Non-Financial Report 2024: Acting on our Environmental Impact; 
Influencing our Supply Chain – Introduction
8
Describe how processes for 
identifying, assessing and 
managing climate-related 
risks are integrated into the 
organisation’s overall risk 
management.
CDP 2023: C1.2, C2.1, C2.2 
Non-Financial Report 2024: Introduction – ESG Management System, 
Materiality Assessment, ESG Risk Management
Metrics and targets
9
Disclose the metrics used by 
the organisation to assess 
climate-related risks and 
opportunities in line with its 
strategy and risk process.
CDP 2023: C4.1, C4.2, C4.2a, C4.2b 
Non-Financial Report 2024: Acting on our Environmental Impact
10
Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2 
and, if appropriate, Scope 3, 
greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 
and the related risks.
CDP 2023: C6.1, C6.3, C6.5, C6.5a 
Non-Financial Report 2024: Acting on our Environmental Impact – Introduction, 
Climate Mitigation, Working to Address Environmental Challenges, 
Environmental Data Set
11
Describe the targets used by 
the organisation to manage 
climate- related risks and 
opportunities and performance 
against targets.
CDP 2023: C4.1, C4.1a, C4.1b, C4.2, C4.2a, C4.2b 
Non-Financial Report 2024: Acting on our Environmental Impact – Introduction

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
43
Acting on our 
Social Impact

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
44
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Acting on our Social Impact
Introduction
People are at the heart of Richemont’s success. To deliver on its 
mission of crafting the future, the Group nurtures the distinctive 
craftsmanship and creativity of its employees, within a collaborative 
and inclusive working environment where talent can thrive. 
Rooted in shared values, the Group aims to create a sense of 
belonging, promoting solidarity, collegiality, loyalty, and freedom 
in its ways of working, as well as nurturing a caring and challenging 
leadership culture.
With a workforce of over 40 000 people (including YNAP and 
Gianvito Rossi), attracting and retaining talent is critical to 
Richemont’s success. The Group’s strength lies in its diversity. As a 
global 
organisation, 
Richemont 
employs 
130 
employee 
nationalities in 40 countries throughout its Maisons, regions, and 
central functions.
This 
chapter 
outlines 
the 
management 
approach, 
 
actions and data that underpin how the Group attracts, 
 
retains, and develops its people through the employee 
 
journey. It also addresses topics identified in the FY23 
 
Materiality Assessment as highly material, including talent 
attraction 
and 
skills 
development, 
health, 
safety 
and 
 
wellbeing 
within 
the 
Group’s 
operations. 
Human 
rights 
 
and labour standards are addressed in the Sustainability 
 
Governance chapter.
Being an Attractive Employer
Nurturing distinctive luxury craftsmanship, enabling a creative 
and innovative spirit, and empowering its people to grow is key to 
Richemont’s purpose to craft the future.
This section describes Richemont’s approach and practices to 
attract talent, engage and manage employees, and reports on 
progress during the year.
Management Approach
Richemont supports its people throughout the full employee 
journey, from talent attraction to ongoing employee engagement 
and management. The Group cultivates an environment where 
talent can thrive, and diversity is embraced. 
Richemont has a distinctive talent acquisition and management 
strategy, focused on supporting the rich and distinctive DNAs of its 
Maisons. This means attracting and hiring people not just for their 
first role, but also for their potential and ability to learn and develop 
towards their long-term aspirations in the Group. Once new 
employees have joined and performed in their roles, they are in 
due time encouraged to explore other opportunities through 
internal mobility, including to Maisons, regions and functions. 
The Group’s Standards of Business Conduct is a key element of 
the management approach, promoting a healthy work 
environment conducive to high-performance. This includes 
aligning 
processes 
and 
procedures 
with 
national 
and 
 
international legislations, such as the conventions of the 
International Labour Organization (ILO). As part of its commitment 
to diversity and inclusion, the Group also strongly supports the 
Convention on the Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination 
Against Women (CEDAW).
Talent Attraction
Richemont attracts the best talent from diverse backgrounds 
through tailored recruitment and onboarding practices. The 
Group also offers competitive and equitable benefits, at or above 
local standards worldwide, consistent with market practice and 
harmonised within each country to ensure fair treatment.
Alongside its well-established talent acquisition practices, the 
Group is adopting innovative strategies to ensure a more holistic 
and inclusive approach to recruitment. For example, Cartier has 
created the Academy of Commercial Talents (ACT) to connect 
with talent from different industries and to offer a career path into 
the world of Cartier retail for candidates from diverse educational 
backgrounds, with no prior experience in the luxury industry. This 
unique recruitment process – where a traditional CV is not 
needed – starts with a set of short, engaging, and innovative 
assignments to assess problem-solving skills, attention to detail 
and emotional understanding. This is followed by an on-demand 
interview where the candidate decides where, when and on 
which device this should take place. The final interview includes 
feedback on assessments and retail-based role playing to 
evaluate the fit for the ACT programme.
An effective onboarding process is an essential step in the 
employee journey and key to supporting successful talent 
retention. Specific focus on this process was given in FY24, 
enhancing the support for new hires in navigating the organisation. 
The process includes actions to share insights into the Group 
culture and walk new employees through essential tools, 
technologies and processes in a consistent way all across the 
organisation to help ensure their success.
Richemont’s fair and balanced rewards policy supports its talent 
attraction strategy and includes high-quality benefits programmes 
that provide protection and security, as well as support employee 
wellbeing. These programmes cover all employees regardless of 
geography, and the benefits are outlined below:
 
– Life and Permanent Disability: minimum coverage implemented 
everywhere;

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
45
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Acting on our Social Impact
Being an Attractive Employer continued
 
– Medical: covering employees for major medical events – in 
some markets, coverage is also extended to employees’ 
spouse and children.
 
– Parental Leave: a minimum of 14 weeks paid for maternity and 
adoption (rolled out in most markets as of April 2024)/minimum 
of 5 days paid for paternity;
 
– Employee Assistance Programme: WeCare programme, 
including an emotional support hotline available 24/7 via thirdparty providers to preserve confidentiality;
 
– Business Travel Assistance: covering all employees worldwide 
via International SOS for medical and security assistance;
 
– Staff Sales: Group policy on staff sales to enable employees to 
access selected Group creations at preferential rates; and
 
– Long Service Awards Programme: to celebrate seniority.
The Group promotes a culture of wellbeing and healthy living, 
with a strong focus on care, through the WeCare programme. 
It  provides emotional support and wellbeing services to 
employees and their close relatives, including:
 
– Counselling sessions: with accredited health professionals 
and  no predefined limit on the number of topics that can 
be addressed;
 
– Mindfulness programs and Life Coaching: through six sessions, 
trained health and wellness professionals provide one-on-one 
support and supply electronic resources for self-guided 
individual practice; and
 
– Manager Assist programme: direct one-to-one support to help 
managers deal with complex situations.
In addition to the above-mentioned benefits, Richemont has 
introduced flexible benefits programmes to help create a tailored 
approach, focusing on individual needs. Employees can adapt 
their options by adding or removing benefits or building credits 
towards wellness programmes. These are adapted to specific 
geographies, reflecting local market practices. The flexible 
benefits plan has already been implemented in Greater China 
and Singapore. Thailand, Malaysia and Vietnam are due to follow.
Volunteering is an important part of Richemont’s culture and 
encouraged throughout the organisation. Richemont offers a 
minimum of one day per year for volunteering. Employees contribute 
globally to projects in the areas of education, climate change, 
arts, culture and heritage, social and economic development, 
health and welfare or diverse communities’ development.
Cartier uses a digital platform to support its worldwide volunteer 
programme, Cartier Community Days. This programme enables 
employees to support their local communities and the charitable 
causes that they are passionate about. The initiative was 
launched over two years ago and since the programme was 
launched, over 2 205 employees have volunteered and 
supported 144 non-profit organisations.
In Switzerland, Vacheron Constantin recently launched TOGETHER 
volunteering programme, which had 187 employees signed up 
completing 72 hours of volunteering with local associations like Le 
Caré, a day-centre providing free meals in Geneva, or Partage, 
the Geneva food bank, that distributes food and hygiene products 
to people in need, via 55 local charities and social services.
Panerai’s volunteering initiative ‘Do it Together’ calls for employees 
to present a specific project from the associations they are part of. 
The ‘Do it Together’ committee selects new projects every year 
that cover social inclusion, diversity, women empowerment, 
environment and solidarity actions in the local community.
Van Cleef & Arpels has a combination of ongoing and projectbased volunteering programmes. Under the ‘Sustainability Labz’ 
initiative, volunteers propose and implement actions with a 
positive environmental impact, either locally or more globally 
aligned with the Maison’s projects.
Employee Engagement and Management
The Group clearly sets out its commitments to employees and its 
expectations of them in its Standards of Business Conduct. This 
stipulates that all aspects of the employment relationship, from 
employee management (e.g. working hours policy, collective 
bargaining) to compensation, should be free from any form of 
discrimination. With respect to working hours and overtime, 
Richemont adheres to limits on working hours per week, as 
stipulated by recognised industry standards and relevant local 
legislation in the countries where the Group operates and where 
applicable. In addition, the Group sees collective bargaining as 
an important aspect of the relationship with its people and 69.5% 
of employees in Europe are a part of such agreements. Richemont 
supports collective dialogue and negotiations with employee 
unions and other representative associations wherever local 
legislation applies.
Richemont engages and builds relationships with its employees 
by maintaining open lines of communication. To monitor and 
understand employees’ experiences on their employee journey, 
employee surveys are deployed regularly throughout the 
organisation. These are customised for Maisons, regions and 
functions, reflecting their maturity and priorities. Once the surveys 
are completed, feedback is addressed as appropriate. Key 
topics highlighted in recent surveys include engagement, work 
experience and workplace, covering themes such as employee 
satisfaction, career development and diversity and inclusiveness.
Confidential employee feedback is also encouraged through 
the Richemont Speak Up Platform, which provides a safe 
environment for its people to raise concerns about unethical, 
illegal, and inappropriate behaviour and practices. More 
information on the Speak Up Platform can be found in the 
Speaking Up and Reinforcing our Values section of the 
Sustainability Governance chapter.
Performance
Monitoring and responding to employee feedback enables the 
Group to continue building its reputation as an attractive 
employer. To further improve on its current engagement practice, 
the Group has introduced a new engagement tool that allows 
new formats of engagement monitoring. It already covers 20% of 
the population, with an average participation rate of 64%.
Richemont has been recognised as an attractive place to work, 
gaining independent awards during the year. These include being 
named by Forbes as one the World’s Best Employers and one of 
the World’s Top Companies for Women, and by Universum as one 
of the Most Attractive Employers in Switzerland for Students, one of 
the Most Attractive Employers in France for Professionals and one 
of the Most Attractive Employers in China for Students. Richemont 
was also recognised as one of World’s Best Companies by Time 
magazine and as one of Les Meilleurs Employeurs Suisse for 2023 
and received a Top 100 Employer Excellence Award in China. 
In FY24, Richemont obtained the global gender EQUAL-SALARY 
certification from the EQUAL-SALARY Foundation. The certification 
recognises Richemont’s commitment to ensuring a fair and equal 
reward policy between women and men, which is an essential 
prerequisite for fostering a diverse and inclusive workforce. More 
on this development is covered in the DEI section of this chapter.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
46
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Acting on our Social Impact
Human capital development, including the retention of talents 
and developing their skills, is an integral part of Richemont’s 
people strategy and vision. 
Richemont is dedicated to providing equal opportunities to its 
employees in order for them to grow, through a variety of actions, 
including 
performance 
reviews, 
career 
mentoring, 
and 
development programmes.
Talent skills development was identified as a highly material topic 
in the FY23 Materiality Assessment. This section focuses on the 
Group’s approach to managing and supporting the employees’ 
performance management, through various actions including 
Learning and Development (L&D) programmes as well as Group 
commitment to internal mobility. 
Management Approach 
Richemont’s human capital development strategy is centred 
around its performance management approach, with the 
ambition to enable an attractive, competitive, and forwardlooking mindset, deeply anchored to the Group culture and 
values, that valorise talents’ impact and contributions, and fosters 
a culture of growth to build tomorrow’s capabilities.
To enable this, Richemont has focused on: 
 
– Attracting talents, sharing about the Group culture, and 
elevating the candidate experience. These efforts resulted in a 
number of accolades from global and local institutions, 
recognising Richemont as an attractive place to work.
 
– Accelerating on development and internal mobility to retain 
employees, empowering them to take ownership of their 
career with the evolution of performance framework.
The updated performance review process assesses everyone’s 
impact on value creation, creating a performance mindset 
shared throughout the entire organisation. It also fosters an active 
learning culture, where every employee is encouraged to plan 
their 
own 
personal 
development 
journey. 
This 
includes 
personalised career development plans with opportunities on the 
job, customised learning, as well as internal mobility on short or 
long-term assignments. In addition, this review process allows the 
Group to calibrate its current talent pool and identify any gaps to 
facilitate succession planning.
Performance Management
The Group has been on a journey to evolve its performance 
management approach with a focus on the following long-term 
strategic pillars: empowering colleagues to take ownership of 
their journey with My Performance Journey. Indeed, this 
approach enables regular touchpoints instead of one annual 
conversation, for on-going dialogue between employee and 
manager, structured around two critical touchpoints:
 
– My Priorities: tracking achievements and impact, and 
evaluating the individual contribution of colleagues through 
clear value-creation key performance indicators (KPIs), 
supporting the employee assessment; and
 
– My 
Development: 
encouraging 
a 
strong 
focus 
on 
development, 
highlighting 
growth 
opportunities 
and 
supported by concrete actions.
Those regular reviews are integral to Richemont’s commitment to 
supporting 
employees’ 
excellence, 
growth 
and 
career 
development, ensuring they obtain constructive feedback, make 
an impact, and develop the skills and knowledge they need.
This framework supports a more flexible approach for retail and 
manufacturing, and is enabled by a digital toolkit that integrates 
performance, development actions, career opportunities and 
learning needs to support personalised learning and development, 
moving beyond traditional linear career paths.
Human Capital Development
Supporting the ongoing learning and professional growth of its 
employees and enabling internal mobility, gives Richemont a 
competitive edge in attracting and retaining talent. In situations 
where a reorganisation of the workforce is necessary, Richemont 
endeavours to reassign roles in a feasible manner, while being 
compliant with applicable local laws and regulations. Transition 
programmes are locally managed, evaluating cases on an 
individual basis. This allows Richemont to develop these 
programmes tailored to the specific needs of employees.
L&D Strategy and Specific Programmes
Richemont’s development philosophy combines opportunities 
for colleagues to grow through work experience, taking on new 
projects or responsibilities in their current roles, exposure to 
coaching and mentoring by skilled peers, and having access to 
extended learning programmes customised for the organisation. 
Over the last three years, L&D efforts have centred on reinforcing 
Richemont’s 
learning 
culture 
foundations, 
enhancing 
‘#NeverStopLearning’ platform access, user experience and 
content. It offers a wide range of regularly updated programmes 
that are available to all employees. 
Specific modules are developed to support the Group’s strategic 
priorities, providing programmes for its functions. The approach, 
through those initiatives, is to empower colleagues to grow their 
skills and support their employability, while developing critical 
capabilities for the business to adjust to a fast-changing 
environment powered by technological, digital and cultural 
transformations. These include:
 
– Functional upskilling: the Group is evolving towards a functional 
upskilling strategy, to provide targeted learning based on 
central functions’ needs to help build critical capabilities. 
Tailor-made upskilling programmes are put in place as and 
when required to improve knowledge in specific areas, which 
support functions’ in fulfilling their business ambitions, whilst 
ensuring the long-term employability of colleagues. By way of 
illustration, various Richemont digital sustainability upskilling 
actions were launched in FY24 to equip employees with 
 
the tools and opportunities to grow their sustainability 
understanding and ESG technical skills such as reporting. 
 
Fostering Human 
Capital Development

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
47
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Acting on our Social Impact
Fostering Human Capital Development continued
 
– In addition, the Data Academy, a specific programme 
designed for Group Technology, is launching soon to provide 
cloud computing competency;
 
– ‘Crossing Boundaries’ is one of the Group’s signature 
programmes dedicated to strengthening cultural agility and 
empathy across the organisation. Its objective is to build 
employees capacity to execute business transactions, 
navigate cultural dynamics, and manage interactions across 
geographies and cultures. This year’s edition aims to hone 
cross-cultural skills and increase awareness of cultural contexts 
across regions, to support employees in their interactions with 
colleagues around the world. During the reporting period, 
learners from 18 Maisons in 21 countries benefitted from 
the programme.
 
– ‘EVOLVE Future Ready’ is the tailor-made programme focused 
on the luxury industry transformation and co-designed with the 
International Institute for Management Development (IMD). 
It  is designed to nurture an innovative culture and equip 
Richemont’s employees with the skills necessary to understand 
the future of the luxury industry. The third EVOLVE Programme 
was run in FY24 and covered topics including digital trends, 
supply chain, risk, innovation and cybersecurity: more than 
1 600 employees participated, including learners from 
21 Maisons and 31 countries.
Internal Mobility
Internal mobility supports the above approach on learning and 
development. The Group continues to offer employees the 
opportunity to take new roles in the organisation fulfilling their 
professional aspirations while responding to the needs of the 
business. Almost 40% of permanent roles are filled internally and 
this percentage increases with more senior positions. These 
internal vacancies are advertised transparently on the Group’s 
internal portal and offer all employees the chance to explore the 
diversity of its Maisons, regions and functions, and takes 
advantage of its global presence, both key assets for talent 
attraction and retention.
Apprenticeships and Internships
Preserving special craftsmanship is critical to building a sustainable 
luxury industry and Richemont is committed to playing its part. 
The Group supports an extensive apprenticeship programme in 
Switzerland. Under this dual-track apprenticeship system, young 
people combine on-the-job training in a host company with 
lessons at a vocational school and obtain a federal certification 
after two-, three- or four-year programmes that allow them to 
start their careers with a good foundation of “savoir-faire”. 
 
To increase the number of apprentices across the country and 
secure a strong and competent manufacturing workforce, 
 
a dedicated function in Richemont Switzerland was created last 
year to support the Maisons in following this Swiss-specific 
education path. In FY24, Richemont currently had 147 apprentices 
in training, which is a 10.5% increase from 133 in FY23. 
 
The programme has also expanded, with newly acquired entities 
joining the existing apprenticeship programmes and providing 
additional opportunities.
Richemont Americas launched the Laureus Acceleration 
Programme in 2021 to promote better access and understanding 
of the luxury business to students from disadvantaged 
backgrounds. The programme includes career day visits and 
internship components that began in 2022 with both Richemont 
Maisons and functions.
In 2023, IWC Schaffhausen achieved Great Start! Certification via 
an original and inclusive apprenticeship programme that offers 
an excellent foundation for trainees to develop their skills and 
grow in this industry. 34 IWC apprentices were surveyed about the 
training culture at IWC Schaffhausen, expressing an overall level 
of satisfaction of 89%, illustrating the strong academic support 
they received in a fair and respectful environment.
In addition, last year, Watchfinder & Co offered a variety of 
experiences and events to over 150 students from schools in its 
local area including a Technology Challenge, work experience 
and an ‘Experience Day’ at its headquarters enabling secondary 
students from a variety of backgrounds to discover the world of 
watchmaking and careers advice. Watchfinder & Co is one of the 
leading buyers and sellers of premium pre-owned watches with a 
specialist servicing centre for Richemont’s Maisons in the UK.
Since 1992, Jaeger-LeCoultre and l’Ecole Technique de la Vallée 
de Joux (ETVJ) have maintained a long-term partnership 
dedicated 
to 
apprenticeship. 
In 
2021, 
Jaeger-LeCoultre 
inaugurated a new craftsmanship centre to welcome apprentices 
and 
interns. 
Originally 
dedicated 
to 
watchmaking, 
the 
apprenticeship has been expanded to include new skills, such as 
micro-engineering and quality control.
Maisons’ Partnership with Schools
As part of its commitment to preserving craftsmanship and 
fostering creativity in jewellery and watchmaking, Piaget has 
developed a long-term partnership with the Haute Ecole d’Art et 
Design de Geneve (HEAD). It sponsors an annual competition for 
first year students in jewellery and watchmaking. The Piaget 
design team provides feedback and tutoring during the 
competition process with the winner offered a three-month paid 
internship with the Maison. 
To fulfil the increasing demand for the servicing of Swiss watches 
outside Europe, the Institute of Swiss Watchmaking was founded 
in 2009 to develop highly skilled watchmaking specialists. From 
micromechanics to complications adjustments in watchmaking, 
the Institute, in partnership with WOSTEP (Watchmakers of 
Switzerland Training and Educational Programme), offers a quality 
label 
of 
international 
watchmaking 
training. 
Richemont 
watchmaking Maisons support this partnership in Hong Kong SAR, 
China, Shanghai, China and Dallas, USA.
Founded in 2003, the Creative Academy is Richemont’s design 
school that selects, nurtures and prepares young creative talent 
for the design of luxury jewellery, watches and fashion accessories. 
Each year, 20 of the world’s most promising design students from 
the best schools around the world are selected to complete a 
Master of Arts in Design and Applied Arts. During the last two 
decades, the School has paved the way for successful careers, 
with many of the School’s alumni currently contributing to the 
future of the Richemont Maisons.
As a living heritage Maison with a long-standing commitment to 
the transmission of know-how in jewellery, Van Cleef & Arpels 
created ‘De mains en mains’ programme in Lyon in 2021 with a 
third edition in 2023. Participants from local schools discovered 
the various métiers and know-how from the Maisons’ experts in 
jewellery. The event was organised with the help of L’École des 
Arts Joailliers, the French Ministry of National Education, several 
jewellery training schools, as well as different associations.
In Japan, Van Cleef & Arpels supports since 2022 the preservation 
of craftsmanship and artisan traditions, such as lacquer, folding, 
cutting, dyeing, ceramics, pottery, and tatami, by providing 
financial support for the fieldwork and research of a contemporary 
design and craft team at the Department of International Design 
and Craft Studies at the University of Tokyo.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
48
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Acting on our Social Impact
Fostering Human Capital Development continued
Cartier is also committed to building university partnerships across 
the globe to provide valuable work experience for students and 
nurture a pipeline of talent for the future. Working with an 
extensive list of institutions, Cartier aims to foster learning and 
engagement opportunities outside its own ecosystems. Examples 
of partnerships that took place this year include with the Haute 
Ecole de Joaillerie in Paris for a Digital Bachelor training, the 
exclusive partnership with EMiLUX-SDA Bocconi for the Executive 
Master in Luxury Management, a partnership with CEMS Global 
Alliance in Management that has been ongoing for the last four 
years and QTEM (Quantitative Techniques for Economics and 
Management) that has been running since 2022. 
The Maison is also a partner of prestigious business schools such as 
L’École supérieure de commerce de Paris (ESCP) and École des 
hautes études commerciales de Paris (HEC), Istituto Marangoni in 
Milan, Italy, Georgetown and Howard and Massachusetts Institute 
of Technology (MIT) Universities, USA and NUS Business School, 
Singapore and Sydney University, Australia.
Launched three years ago, the Cartier Research Chair ‘Turning 
Points – Aspiration to Inspiration’ brings together two leading 
business schools, ESCP and HEC to explore long-term research on 
social trends. This includes the creation of the Gen Z Observatory, 
a modern think tank composed of students and Cartier 
employees worldwide explore emerging generational and 
cultural changes.
Performance
Richemont’s performance and development management is 
fundamental for the growth of employees. Key measures help 
track the progress of every employee’s individual journey 
including: performance reviews, career development plans, and 
training hours. These enable the Group to nurture talent and 
promote growth along the employee journey.
In FY24, 84.8% of Richemont’s employees benefited from a regular 
performance 
review 
and 
76.1% 
updated 
their 
personal 
development plans following this.
The focus on growth and professional development during the 
year resulted in 35 791 employees completing training modules 
representing an 7.8% increase over the previous year. A total of 
21 524 learners (employees with at least one non-mandatory 
training completed), accounting for 55.98% of the global 
headcount, completed at least one training session, either online 
or in person. The average number of training hours for FY24 per 
employee was 9.40 hours. More information is available in the 
Social Data Set at the end of this chapter.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
49
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Acting on our Social Impact
By nurturing a diverse workforce, Richemont fosters collegiality, 
solidarity and loyalty and respects the personal characteristics 
of employees. 
Richemont’s strength lies in the diversity of its people as 
represented by its global workforce. With colleagues in 40 
countries across five regions – Europe, APAC, Americas, Japan, 
MEIA – Richemont focuses on fostering a welcoming environment 
for everyone irrespective of nationalities, genders, diverse 
cultures, and educational backgrounds. The Group is dedicated 
to promoting equal opportunity and equitable treatment through 
non-discriminatory practices, offering growth opportunities to 
 
all colleagues.
This section looks at Richemont’s approach to promoting diversity 
and equal opportunity and the programmes in place to ensure 
that Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DEI) is embedded across the 
organisation. These are also referenced in the Being an Attractive 
Employer and Fostering Human Capital Development sections of 
this chapter.
Management Approach
Richemont has set out its commitment to diversity in the Standards 
of Business Conduct stipulating that all aspects of the employment 
relationship, from employee management (e.g. working hours 
policy, collective bargaining) to rewards, should be free from any 
form of discrimination.
The Group respects and acts in accordance with recognised 
equity and diversity standards and works to support the principles 
of equal opportunity and equity of treatment through nondiscriminatory procedures and practices, in line with the 
ILO  International Labour Standards on Equality of Opportunity 
and Treatment.
The Richemont Speak Up Platform, which was opened to third 
parties, ensures a safe environment for anyone to raise concerns 
about unethical, illegal and inappropriate behaviour and 
practices. More information on the Speak Up Platform can 
 
be found in the Sustainability Governance chapter.
The completion of a worldwide DEI listening tour was critical in 
helping the organisation better capture the nuances of 
perceptions and expectations in relation to diversity. In FY24, 
Richemont focused on two main aspects of DEI, strengthening 
organisation equity processes and building cultural awareness 
through training and development initiatives.
With operations across the globe and a growing proportion 
of 
non-European 
employees, 
increasing 
inclusivity 
and 
understanding remains a priority for the Group.
Programmes and Actions
Reinforcing Equity
With respect to pay equity, over the course of last year the Group 
embarked on a collective journey to ensure that its employees 
are paid equitably across genders in every market where it 
operates. Having started the process in Switzerland and France, 
which represent two of the Group’s largest employee populations, 
EQUAL-SALARY certification was achieved at a global level in 
FY24. The EQUAL-SALARY Certification is a process that allows 
companies to verify and communicate that gender equity is a 
strategic business concern and that employees are paid equally 
for the same role or for a work of equal value. The 12-month 
certification process for Richemont was independently audited 
by PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) and completed in November 
2023. This involved a series of steps such as statistical analysis of 
compensation data, on-site audits, online surveys, in-person 
interviews – the result underlines Richemont’s commitment to 
ensuring a fair and equitable wage policy between women and 
men for more than 38 000 employees (excluding YNAP and sites 
in Russia) across 39 markets.
The Group continued the roll out of the ConnectHER Talent 
Accelerator initiative launched in FY22 with a view to increasing 
the number of women in the pipeline for senior-level positions. 
The first cohort was drawn from teams across Maisons, regions 
and functions.
Richemont Europe launched She becomes, a programme 
focusing on empowering women to reach their full potential in 
leadership roles and equipping them with the necessary tools, 
skills, coaching and community to be fulfilled and successful. The 
programme aims to deepen participants’ self-awareness, help 
them chart a path towards aspired senior leadership opportunities 
and support them in their development journey. She becomes 
also recognises the importance of involving managers as agents 
of change, to learn about inclusive leadership and how to act as 
powerful allies to support team members and other colleagues.
Cross-Cultural Agility
To promote cultural awareness, building on partnerships across 
regions and functions, the ‘Crossing Boundaries’ programme was 
further rolled out during FY24. This programme aims to strengthen 
employees’ cultural skills and enhance understanding of clients 
across the world, recognising local challenges and cultural 
complexities. 
Learning 
resources 
are 
made 
available 
 
through specific events and self-paced content on the 
 
#NeverStopLearning digital platform. Additional programmes 
were implemented by Maisons throughout the year.
Following a DEI HR diagnostic conducted in several regions, 
Cartier is developing a global DEI framework to empower its 
entities and markets to work on specific DEI topics that are 
culturally relevant to their local context. As a result, Cartier’s local 
teams continue working on various DEI actions, creating action 
plans and defining objectives for their DEI topics. For example, 
Manufactures Cartier Horlogerie have implemented a DEI 
Statement and Cartier Joaillerie International has launched a 
Promoting Diversity and 
Equal Opportunity

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
50
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Acting on our Social Impact
Promoting Diversity and Equal Opportunity continued
Disability Action Plan. To foster its continuous integration into the 
business, North America incorporates DEI as a regular topic for its 
boutiques morning briefings (Maison Mornings), creating a space 
for collective learning and celebration, and continues the 
successful work with the local DEI Council. 
Also, with a view to addressing the stigma within the workplace 
around serious illnesses such as cancer or chronic conditions, 
Cartier signed the ‘Working with Cancer’ pledge. Additional 
examples of how Richemont’s Maisons are integrating DEI 
programmes are outlined below.
Cartier North America launched its second cohort of the DEI 
Council comprised of 11 employees who serve as representatives 
of their teams and regions to continuously inform and localise the 
DEI strategy and actions. In partnership with Learning & 
Development, the DEI Council addressed both external and 
internal business challenges and presented their ideas and 
solutions to the Cartier North America Executive Committee.
Vacheron 
Constantin 
championed 
several 
innovative 
partnerships this year, including the launch of an internship 
programme with the non-governmental organisation ‘Elles 
Bougent’ focused on helping women access technological and 
scientific roles within companies. For the third consecutive year 
the Maison partnered with ‘Démarche’, a non-profit, public utility 
created to strengthen employability and support integration into 
the job market. 145 participants benefitted from coaching and 
internships in 2023, with 65 of them finding a job or professional 
training. Vacheron Constantin also partnered with the non-profit 
reinsertion association ‘Travailleur Recherche Travail’, welcoming 
candidates in four to 12-week watchmaking workshops to help 
them boost their self-confidence and re-enter the workforce.
This year, YNAP restructured its global Employee Resource Group 
Programme (ERG), to build a more inclusive workplace. 1 300 
employees were engaged across seven different ERGs: 
AdaptAbility Network, Ethnic Equality Network, Greenroots 
Network, Parents and Caregivers Network, Pride Network, 
Women’s Network and Young Professionals Network. Each 
network meets monthly and puts on a range of events, 
programmes and actions throughout the year for their members 
and the wider YNAP community.
Montblanc launched a new competency model to embed DEI 
principles across its recruitment process. To date over 3 000 
employees, including all employees at their headquarters in 
Hamburg, Germany have been trained on, diversity, discrimination 
and unconscious bias. Every new employee will be trained on the 
competency model as part of their onboarding, and it is 
integrated into all employee performance reviews to ensure 
continuous improvement.
Performance
In terms of strengthening organisation equity, as highlighted 
above, the achievement of the EQUAL-SALARY Foundation’s 
certification in FY24 represents a major milestone in Richemont’s 
efforts to build an attractive and inclusive workplace. The global 
EQUAL-SALARY certification is valid for three years. 
Although the Group promotes gender balance, with female 
employees representing 58% of the total workforce and 50% of 
management positions, it continues to work towards a more 
equal balance in senior management, where the proportion of 
women on the Senior Executive Committee is 25%.
Also during the year, Richemont made progress in encouraging 
understanding of its rich cultural diversity through its learning 
initiatives including Crossing Boundaries initiative with learners 
from 18 Maisons in 21 countries benefitting from the programme 
in FY24.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
51
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Acting on our Social Impact
Richemont is committed to the constant improvement of health 
and safety in the workplace everywhere the Group operates. 
This year, progress was made in strengthening the Health and 
Safety Management System, taking the necessary measures to 
enhance standards, guidance and best practices.
Maintaining a safe and healthy work environment is achieved 
through a strong safety culture developed through activities such 
as training and awareness campaigns. This section describes how 
the Group applies the dedicated measures that foster a culture 
of care and responsibility towards its employees and stakeholders, 
as also reinforced within the Richemont Human Rights Statement 
published in FY24. 
Management Approach
The Group’s Health and Safety Management System is 
underpinned by the Group Security Policy and sets out 
responsibilities and rules covering all Richemont employees. It 
also applies to workers who are not directly employed by the 
Group, including contractors, service providers, customers and 
visitors in all its operations worldwide. 
The management system complies with international and local 
laws, the International Labour Organisation’s guidelines, SA8000, 
as well as the Group’s Health and Safety Standards, to ensure 
that Richemont contributes to:
 
– protecting the safety of people by providing safe and healthy 
workplace conditions;
 
– prioritising the protection and safety of employees in the event 
of an incident or crisis; and
 
– taking steps to appropriately consult employees and other 
interested parties on matters affecting their health and safety, 
encouraging involvement and commitment to the health and 
safety agenda and the promotion of wellbeing at work.
The Group Security Health, Safety and Environment (Group 
Security HSE) team supports management in ensuring the Health 
and Safety Management System is continuously improved and 
updated to maintain its effectiveness over time. The team sets 
out ‘Minimum Standards’ and guidelines to complement the 
Security Policy and provide further guidance for all employees. 
Minimum Standards specify controls required at Group’s sites. 
They are based on the identification of risks across the Group’s 
operations. They are mandatory and explain ‘what’ must be 
done, on topics such as Emergency Preparedness and Response, 
Electrical Safety and Increased Risk Activities or Compliance. 
They also cover environmental topics, such as environmental 
impact of activities, chemical spills, wastewater and waste. 
Governed by the management system and steered by the Group 
Security Policy, the Maisons and regions implement their own 
Health and Safety Management Systems adapted to their specific 
contexts, in alignment with the Group’s health and safety 
requirements. Their management, supported by those with 
specific health and safety responsibilities, is ultimately responsible 
for providing a safe working environment and reducing workplace 
hazards for both employees and external parties. This creates a 
localised operating model on health and safety management 
with a normative mission at Group level.
Richemont’s Group Security HSE team ensures that every Group 
Maison and region complies with legal and HSE requirements as 
a minimum and strives to implement higher standards wherever 
appropriate. Maisons and regions are responsible for their 
compliance with applicable local legislation and regulations. The 
Group Security HSE team provides guidance and support to local 
teams, monitors health and safety performances globally and 
shares best practices. 
The role of the Group Security HSE team also encompasses 
monitoring and responding to evolving legal requirements. This 
approach is guided by understanding the hazards and risks 
related to the Group’s activities and prioritising appropriate 
mitigation of health and safety areas that are considered high risk.
As further detailed in the following sections, Richemont’s action 
plan outlines the following objectives:
 
– identify, monitor and mitigate key risks and ensure compliance;
 
– proactively strengthen safety culture and behaviour;
 
– reinforce a data-driven strategy and approach; and
 
– continue 
to 
fortify 
the 
foundations 
of 
the 
Group’s 
 
safety approach.
In FY24, the following actions were implemented to support the 
continuous improvement of the plan:
 
– defining a Health & Safety (H&S) Improvement Programme;
 
– updating the Minimum Standards and control measures on 
chemical safety and fire protection (amongst others);
 
– completing the roll-out of ‘ChemGuard’, an online tool for 
Chemical Safety Data Sheet management; 
 
– carrying out the Group-wide Health and Safety Awareness 
Campaign; and
 
– improving health, safety and environment data and the 
dashboard with an automated and live data feed.
The H&S Improvement Programme aims to reinforce the Group’s 
safety approach. To deploy it, the Group recruited a Health and 
Safety Project Manager. Health and safety roles and responsibilities 
across operations and processes, including legal compliance 
and incident management, have been further defined. 
Health and Safety Governance
The Group Security HSE Committee is composed of 15 members 
from across the Group (i.e., Legal, Human Resources, Sustainability, 
Supply Chain, etc.), and acts as the Richemont health, safety 
and environment governance body. The committee convenes 
biannually, and its agenda comprises, but is not limited to, regular 
updates on Group, regional, and local-based actions that 
promote effective communication and cooperation on health, 
safety and environment matters. Local committees are in place 
to consult and exchange information on health, safety and 
environment matters where required by local laws, regulations 
and needs. 
Ensuring the Health and 
Safety of our People

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
52
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Acting on our Social Impact
Ensuring the Health and Safety of our People continued
In addition, Group Security HSE contributes to the Human 
 
Rights Taskforce as further described in the Sustainability 
Governance chapter.
Employees are informed on health and safety issues. They have 
the opportunity to raise any concerns, and receive feedback on 
the issues raised. The Health and Safety Hazard Identification and 
Risk Assessment document outlines that individuals responsible for 
the relevant activity should be consulted.
Richemont’s employees and relevant parties can provide 
feedback on both the Group Health and Safety Management 
System and Maison  and region-specific health, safety and 
environment arrangements via:
 
– a Group-wide email inbox;
 
– direct contact with local health, safety and environment 
representatives; and
 
– Maison 
and 
region-specific 
communication 
and 
 
cooperation arrangements (e.g. forums, briefings, internal 
social media, etc.).
H&S Legal Compliance and Environmental Legislation
To ensure legal compliance, Richemont must meet applicable 
local and international laws and regulations related to health, 
safety and environmental matters. An online tool provides 
requirements based on local laws and allows HSE site 
representatives to identify and assess compliance with relevant 
legislation, according to their jurisdiction. In FY24, 311 legal selfassessments were completed to identify the potential gaps. Each 
applicable site is responsible for implementing mitigation actions 
if non-compliance is identified. These sites are also responsible for 
regular reviews and updates of the assessment as necessary, 
such as when legislation, regulation or significant workplace 
conditions change.
This year, the Group Security HSE team implemented analytics 
dashboards to enhance global compliance monitoring. The 
dashboards provide information on compliance levels for specific 
Maisons and regions, including improvement areas and tracked 
changes in compliance over time. At Group level, the dashboards 
have highlighted opportunities for improvement in standards and 
practices and gives risk owners visibility of their compliance status.
Occupational Health Management
Occupational health is one of the core elements of the Group 
and local H&S Management Systems which include, amongst 
others, risk assessment and mitigation processes. Based on 
Richemont’s Minimum Standards, Maisons and regions are 
required to have control measures in place, such as chemical 
exposure assessments, ergonomic workstation assessments or 
adequate ventilation, to prevent occupational illnesses. 
Depending on the risk and the task, other actions include but are 
not limited to:
 
– safety guidelines (e.g. on rhodium plating activities);
 
– encouraging employee participation in the health and safety 
campaign ‘Have a Safe Day’;
 
– internal and external compliance assessment, using a sampling 
approach; and
 
– working environment analysis.
Hazard identification, Risk Assessment and Incident investigation
As part of Richemont’s Health and Safety management system, 
every site is required to carry out a hazard identification and risk 
assessment aimed at preventing occupational health and safety 
risks. To ensure consistency across the Group, the Group Security 
HSE team has developed a process for identifying hazards and 
assessing risks. This process is outlined in the Health and Safety 
Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment document. It provides 
a step-by-step procedure to: 
 
– analyse activities, materials, equipment, infrastructure and the 
working environments of the site, as well as human factors, 
including activities with contractors or visitors; 
 
– identify the associated hazards; and
 
– assess their severity, based on impact and likelihood.
The people carrying out the risk assessment have knowledge and 
experience of the risk assessment process. This process takes into 
account relevant information such as safety data sheets, incident 
reports, procedures, interviews with people carrying out the work, 
and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. The local 
regulations prevail in case of conflict with the Group process. 
The risk assessment results are used to understand the effectiveness 
of current control measures and determine whether they should 
be adapted, or additional controls implemented. Both H&S 
representatives and those who are involved in the relevant 
activity are engaged to ensure quality and relevance. 
Assessments are reviewed and updated after significant incidents, 
when deemed necessary (e.g. prior to changes), and at least 
every two years. As part of the risk assessment and mitigation 
process, sites implement actions to reduce to an acceptable 
level or preferably eliminate the risk of work-related hazards. 
By using the ‘hierarchy of controls’ method, Richemont promotes 
the concept of ‘Safety by Design’, which means that safety is 
taken into account from the early stages, for example, in the:
 
– construction or refurbishment of sites;
 
– procurement of safer machinery and equipment;
 
– communication of H&S risk management best practices; and
 
– management of chemical risk.
Any employee can report work-related hazards and hazardous 
situations through their local HSE representative and the Group 
Security HSE team or by using the internal Richemont Speak Up 
Platform, as described above. This feedback is strongly 
encouraged and anyone who speaks up will be protected from 
any possible reprisals. Employees have the right to withdraw from 
the immediate danger and escalate the issue, as appropriate. 
This also applies to workers who are not directly employed by the 
Group in all its operations worldwide. 
Richemont Group Security oversees HSE data and has the 
authority to conduct independent and confidential investigations, 
where necessary. Where appropriate, Group Security can also 
investigate alongside Richemont Internal Audit.
Chemical Health, Safety and Environmental Risk Management 
The Chemical Management Framework forms the basis of 
Richemont’s commitment to reducing the health, safety and 
environmental risks associated with the handling of chemicals 
and hazardous waste. It applies to Group Maisons and regions 
and subcontractors carrying out work on Group sites and 
describes the requirements for the safe and responsible 
management of chemicals used in the workplace.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
53
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Acting on our Social Impact
Ensuring the Health and Safety of our People continued
This framework was developed by the Chemicals Management 
Committee, established in FY23 to strengthen the Chemical 
Management Framework. The committee meets regularly to 
further develop the Chemical Management Framework at Group 
level and consists of relevant stakeholders and experts from 
manufacturing sites, customer repair centres, and research and 
innovation departments. The committee’s other achievements 
this year include:
 
– updating the Minimum Standards and control measures to 
reduce and more effectively manage the risks associated with 
the use of chemicals across the Group;
 
– developing guidelines on high-risk activities; and
 
– coordinating chemical substitution programmes.
This year, Group Security HSE achieved its objective to roll out 
ChemGuard, Richemont’s chemical safety data management 
tool, across 100% of the Group’s manufacturing sites, and 
successfully deployed it in 100% of repair centres around the 
world. ChemGuard enables the Group to understand which 
chemicals are used and where to provide users with vital safety 
and environmental information, as well as capturing and 
providing up-to-date access to Chemical Safety data sheets 
which contain critical information from chemical providers 
regarding their safe and appropriate use.
The completion of ChemGuard’s roll-out was supported by an 
awareness campaign and individual support for each site, 
ensuring that the tool responds to local needs and context. 
Group Security HSE has provided training on this tool to local HSE 
representatives as well as many other employees who handle 
chemicals and have direct access to up-to-date Chemical 
Safety data sheets.
For more details on responsible chemical management, please 
see the Chemical Competence Center subsection in the 
Sustainability Governance chapter.
Fire Prevention
Richemont recognises that fire safety is an essential part of HSE as 
a significant hazard. Insurance surveys were carried out at four 
critical sites in FY24, with a further four insurance surveys planned 
for FY25. These insurance surveys focus heavily on fire prevention 
and insurer expectations for risk management.
In addition to the comprehensive review and update of the 
relevant Minimum Standards for fire safety, specific guidelines 
 
for fire protection at corporate events and repair centres 
 
were also developed this year. For events and new critical 
construction projects, fire safety experts ensure compliance 
 
with local legislation, Group Minimum Standards and appropriate 
risk management.
Richemont’s goal is to integrate fire safety technologies, materials, 
and designs into new projects at the outset, in line with the ‘Safety 
by Design’ concept. This approach incorporates fire safety 
considerations into the design and planning stages at an early 
point to optimise the overall safety and resilience of the built 
environment, thus providing ongoing expert input and guidance 
on new large-scale construction projects.
Performance
Richemont has proactive measures in place to mitigate 
occupational risks and promote physical and mental health for 
employees, 
stakeholders 
and 
communities. 
The 
Group’s 
dedicated reporting tools cultivate a culture of workplace safety 
across the business.
Assurance Programme
As detailed in the Management approach subsection above, 
the Group’s Minimum Standards require Maisons and regions to 
have a suitable and sufficient system in place to test the 
effectiveness of its controls. At Group level, each fiscal year the 
Group Security HSE Assurance programme defines a sample of 
sites within the Group to be assessed either by internal or external 
assessors to:
 
– ensure the site complies with the Group Security Physical 
Security and HSE Minimum Standard, as well as international 
and local legislation;
 
– guarantee that the site appropriately mitigates its key risks, 
based on information from key internal stakeholders, assessors’ 
knowledge and market best practices; and
 
– collect any best practices.
During FY24, 25 HSE assessments were conducted in boutiques, 
offices, manufacturers and repair centres in various countries, 
against the Group’s Minimum Standards. Results are documented 
in 
reports 
detailing 
findings 
and 
issues, 
enabling 
local 
management to respond, address and further mitigate risks. 
Each site then formalises an action plan with identified corrective 
actions, a timeframe for their completion and an explanation 
 
on how their effectiveness will be measured. Group Security 
validates the completion of corrective actions. The results 
 
of these assessments are analysed to identify opportunities 
 
for improvement.
In addition to the Assurance programme, regular meetings are 
held with Group Maisons and regions to ensure the Health and 
Safety Management System remains appropriate, adequate 
and effective. Indicators including the HSE legal compliance 
level and the number and types of H&S incidents are reviewed to 
assess the effectiveness of actions. 
Each year, the Group Security HSE team also brings together HSE 
representatives and industry experts from across the Group. 
Interactive sessions are organised, promoting the exchange of 
best practice and lessons learnt on how to make the workplace 
safer. This year’s topics included ergonomic work, maternity 
protection and strengthening safety culture and behaviour.
Monitoring and Reporting HSE Incidents
Richemont has a dedicated tool called ‘ONE INCIDENT’, where 
all hazardous situations and other incidents are logged by the 
local HSE representatives, including those affecting workers who 
are not direct employees of the Group’s Maisons and regions, as 
well as customers and visitors across operations worldwide.
ONE INCIDENT centralises information to ensure detailed 
investigations are undertaken based on the actual and potential 
impact of any significant incidents, so that targeted risk control 
measures can be implemented. In cases where Richemont 
employees and other parties have reason to believe that their 
health and safety is at unacceptable risk, they have the right to 
stop work at any time without reprisal. At that point, a risk 
assessment will be carried out to determine whether the task 
should be continued.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
54
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Acting on our Social Impact
Ensuring the Health and Safety of our People continued
Within the ONE INCIDENT tool, Richemont groups the types 
 
of incidents into categories to enable trend analysis and 
 
hazard mitigation. 
The top five types of work-related injuries from FY24 Recordable 
Incident Rate data are: concussions and bruises; dislocations, 
strains and sprains; superficial injuries; open wounds; physical 
shocks. The top five reported hazard categories that cause workrelated injuries are: slips, trips, and falls; cutting, stabbing, 
puncture, friction and abrasion; hit by a falling or moving object; 
fall in staircases; road traffic accidents.
The top three types of work-related ill health are: irritations and 
allergies; effort pain (i.e. result of poor posture), lumbago; 
psychosocial factors. The top five reported hazard categories 
causing work-related ill health are: collapse, fainting, ill-health at 
workplace; contact with hazardous substances; ergonomics.
Group Security HSE team has developed HSE incident processes 
and guidelines for the reporting and investigation of such 
incidents. These improve the understanding of the causes of 
incidents and lead to appropriate action plans.
The incident investigation process includes the following steps:
1. Response – immediate response to the incident
2. Notification – notifying all relevant stakeholders
3. Creation in the dedicated Richemont tool ONE INCIDENT
4. Investigation – identification of immediate and root causes 
leading to the incident
5. Root cause analysis – applying a recognised investigation 
method
6. Implementation of identified mitigation measures
7. Completion of the report in ONE INCIDENT
8. Statistics – extraction of data for KPIs and trend analyses 
related to HSE incidents
Once the immediate and root causes have been identified, the 
residual risk should be mitigated as far as reasonably practicable. 
Corrective 
measures 
are 
determined 
with 
the 
Incident 
Investigation team, who then provide an action plan with SMART 
(Specific, Measurable, Agreed, Realistic and Time-scaled) 
objectives to address the immediate and root causes of the 
incident, which is recorded in the ONE INCIDENT tool.
Richemont had zero work-related fatalities in either FY24 or FY23 
and zero high-consequence work-related injuries in FY24.
The Group acknowledges that there has been an increase in 
recordable work-related injuries, which must be addressed. Part 
of this increase is a result of a Group-wide awareness campaign 
on occupational health and safety risks and on the importance 
of reporting incidents, as well as continuous improvements in the 
incident data collection arrangements.
Detailed statistics on work-related injuries and ill-health are 
available in the ‘Social Data Set’ section in this chapter. 
The processes and guidelines implemented for reporting and 
investigating incidents also cover and apply to environmental 
incidents. ONE INCIDENT is also used and in FY24, eight 
environmental incidents were recorded (FY23: three) through the 
tool. Seven of these incidents were related to leaks and spills of 
substances. They were immediately addressed, and the relevant 
authorities notified, when necessary. These incidents resulted in 
no injury, no significant environmental impact, and no impact on 
production. The last incident was related to water effluent tested 
over the discharge consent limits. It was rerouted from normal 
sewage to a dedicated bulk container and disposed of as 
hazardous waste as per legal requirements.
Health and Safety Training and Campaigns
Health and Safety training for employees is provided via the 
Group Learning Management System, where employees can 
choose an appropriate module based on their individual needs. 
The modules are available to all employees in multiple languages, 
and local Maisons and regions provide further in-depth H&S 
training on work-related hazards based on risk assessments and 
local legislation. In FY24, 33 567 training modules were delivered 
to employees across the Group.
Group-wide Health and Safety campaigns are organised under 
the ‘Have a Safe Day’ theme. This year, the focus was on the 
prevention of slips, trips and falls, fire protection, ergonomics, and 
tips to improve sleep health. Amongst the campaign’s successes, 
there was an increase in the number of incidents being reported 
in the weeks that followed. Next year’s focus will be on safe 
mobility and the safe use of chemicals.
These campaigns, learning modules and guidelines are 
developed on the basis of identified risks and incident trend 
analysis, such as this year’s Group guidelines on the safe use of 
ladders. Next year, the plan is to provide training on incident 
investigation techniques and to further centralise data relating to 
the local H&S training.
Sharing of expertise is vital to enhancing the Group’s knowledge 
base and promoting better health and safety management 
across Maisons and regions. Although the Health and Safety 
Management System requires the appointment of Health and 
Safety 
Representatives, 
local 
line 
management 
and 
representatives are responsible for defining their own training and 
competency needs.
For example, Van Cleef & Arpels’ offices in Paris received WELL 
Gold certified in September 2023. The WELL Building Standard™ is 
a performance-based system that scores an office space on its 
ability to improve human health and promote wellbeing for all. 
The organisation receives a score across ten principles, from air 
quality, light and thermal comfort, to sound, movement and 
community. Van Cleef & Arpel’s newly renovated Jardine House 
office space has also been certified with two stars from Fitwel®, 
the world’s leading certification system committed to building 
health for all. Generated by expert analysis of 7 000+ academic 
research studies, Fitwel Scorecards include 55+ evidence-based 
design and operational strategies that enhance buildings by 
addressing a broad range of health behaviours and risks.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
55
Acting on our Social Impact
Social
Data Set

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
56
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Acting on our Social Impact
Social Data Set continued
Global HR Data FY24 (GRI 2-7)
(Headcount as of the end of March 2024)
FY24 HR data does not include data related to YNAP and the Maison, Gianvito Rossi and the Manufacture Miles, acquired during 
 
the reporting period. 
*FY23 HR data excludes YNAP and Delvaux.
Table 1: Information on total number of employees, per employment type, by gender
FY23*
FY24
Female
Male
Total
% of total 
headcount
Female
Male
Total
% of total 
headcount
Permanent and Temporary Employees
20 469
15 350
35 819
22 249
16 206
38 455
57.1%
42.9%
57.9%
42.1%
Permanent
18 734
14 316
33 050
92.0%
20 286
15 080
35 366
92.0%
56.7%
43.3%
57.4%
42.6%
Temporary
1 735
1 034
2 769
8.0%
1 963
1 126
3 089
8.0%
62.7%
37.3%
63.5%
36.5%
Full Time
18 594
14 830
33 424
93.0%
20 308
15 630
35 938
93.5%
55.6%
44.4%
56.5%
43.5%
Part Time
1 875
520
2 395
7.0%
1 941
576
2 517
6.5%
78.3%
21.7%
77.1%
22.9%
Table 2: Information on total number of employees per employment type by region
FY23*
FY24
Americas
Asia 
Pacific
Europe
Japan
Middle 
East 
India 
South 
Africa
Total
Americas
Asia 
Pacific
Europe
Japan
Middle 
East 
India 
South 
Africa
Total
Permanent 
and Temporary 
Employees
3 776
8 622
19 896
2 115
1 410
35 819
4 075
9 308
21 214
2 272
1 586
38 455
10.5%
24.1%
55.5%
5.9%
3.9%
10.6%
24.2%
55.2%
5.9%
4.1%
Permanent
3 653
8 383
17 828
1 958
1 228
33 050
3 991
9 033
18 816
2 115
1 411
35 366
11.1%
25.4%
53.9%
5.9%
3.7%
11.3%
25.5%
53.2%
6.0%
4.0%
Temporary
123
239
2 068
157
182
2 769
84
275
2 398
157
175
3 089
4.4%
8.6%
74.7%
5.7%
6.6%
2.7%
8.9%
77.6%
5.1%
5.7%
Full Time
3 747
8 562
17 596
2 114
1 405
33 424
4 048
9 246
18 790
2 272
1 582
35 938
11.2%
25.6%
52.6%
6.3%
4.2%
11.3%
25.7%
52.3%
6.3%
4.4%
Part Time
29
60
2 300
1
5
2 395
27
62
2 424
0
4
2 517
1.2%
2.5%
96.0%
0.0%
0.2%
1.1%
2.5%
96.3%
0%
0.2%
69.5% of employees in Richemont Europe covered by collective bargaining agreements.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
57
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Acting on our Social Impact
Social Data Set continued
Diversity HR Data FY24 (GRI 405-1)
Table 3: Diversity of the highest governance body, by gender and age group (%)
FY23*
FY24
Female
Male
50+
Total number
Female
Male
50+
Total number
Senior Executive Committee
40%
60%
100%
5
25%
75%
100%
8
Table 4: Diversity of employee per employee category, by gender (%)
FY23*
FY24
Female
Male
Total
Female
Male
Total
Contributors
49.4%
35.3%
84.7%
50.0%
34.6%
84.5%
Middle Management
5.9%
5.4%
11.3%
6.1%
5.4%
11.5%
Senior Management
1.8%
2.2%
4.0%
1.8%
2.2%
4.0%
Total
57.1%
42.9%
100.0%
57.9%
42.1%
100.0%
FY23*
FY24
Female
Male
Total
Female
Male
Total
Boutique
19.7%
10.5%
30.2%
19.9%
10.7%
30.5%
Manufacturing
9.6%
13.5%
23.1%
10.0%
13.3%
23.3%
Offices
27.8%
18.9%
46.7%
28.0%
18.2%
46.2%
Total
57.1%
42.9%
100.0%
57.9%
42.1%
100.0%
Table 5: Diversity of employee per employee category, by age group (%)
FY23*
FY24
<30
30-50
50+
Grand total
<30
30-50
50+
Grand total
Contributors
18.6%
52.3%
13.8%
84.7%
18.9%
52.1%
13.5%
84.5%
Middle Management
0.3%
8.9%
2.1%
11.3%
0.3%
9.1%
2.1%
11.5%
Senior Management
0.0%
2.7%
1.3%
4.0%
0.0%
2.6%
1.3%
4.0%
Total
18.9%
63.9%
17.2%
100.0%
19.2%
63.8%
17.0%
100.0%
FY23*
FY24
<30
30-50
50+
Grand total
<30
30-50
50+
Grand total
Boutique
4.9%
22.2%
3.1%
30.2%
4.9%
22.6%
3.1%
30.5%
Manufacturing
3.7%
12.8%
6.6%
23.1%
4.1%
12.7%
6.5%
23.3%
Offices
10.3%
28.9%
7.5%
46.7%
10.2%
28.5%
7.5%
46.2%
Total
18.9%
63.9%
17.2%
100.0%
19.2%
63.8%
17.0%
100.0%

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
58
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Acting on our Social Impact
Social Data Set continued
New Employee Hires and Employee Turnover (GRI 401)
Table 6: Total Number of New Employee Hires, by age group and gender
FY23*
FY24
Total number of New Employee Hires
9 577
Total Employee Turnover Rates
13.3%
12.8%
FY24
<30
30-50
50+
Total
Female
32.9%
28.4%
2.3%
63.6%
Male
18.4%
16.4%
1.5%
36.4%
Total
51.4%
44.8%
3.8%
100.0%
Training and Education HR Data FY24 (GRI 404)
Average hours of training (GRI 404-1)
Table 7: Average hours of training per employee, 
by gender
FY23*
FY24
Male
8.99
8.54
Female
7.35
10.03
Total
8.29
9.40
Table 8: Average hours of training per employee, 
by employee category
FY23*
FY24
Contributors
8.25
9.10
Middle Management
9.34
12.23
Senior Management
6.01
7.73
Total
8.29
9.40
FY23*
FY24
Boutique
11.96
15.60
Manufacturing
4.36
3.78
Offices
7.85
8.14
Total
8.29
9.40
Percentage of Employees Receiving Regular Performance Reviews (GRI 404-3)
Table 9: Percentage of employees receiving regular performance reviews, by gender
FY23*
FY24
No
Yes
Total
No
Yes
Total
Female
15.9%
84.1%
100.0%
16.5%
83.5%
100.0%
Male
14.0%
86.0%
100.0%
13.5%
86.5%
100.0%
Total
15.1%
84.9%
100.0%
15.2%
84.8%
100.0%

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
59
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Acting on our Social Impact
Social Data Set continued
Percentage of Employees Receiving Regular Performance Reviews (GRI 404-3) continued
Table 10: Percentage of employees receiving regular performance reviews, by employee category
FY23*
FY24
No
Yes
Total
No
Yes
Total
Contributors
16.1%
83.9%
100.0%
16.4%
83.6%
100.0%
Middle Management
8.0%
92.0%
100.0%
8.1%
91.9%
100.0%
Senior Management
12.7%
87.3%
100.0%
11.2%
88.8%
100.0%
Total
15.1%
84.9%
100.0%
15.2%
84.8%
100.0%
FY23*
FY24
No
Yes
Total
No
Yes
Total
Boutique
10.0%
90.0%
100.0%
11.0%
89.0%
100.0%
Manufacturing
13.4%
86.6%
100.0%
11.7%
88.3%
100.0%
Offices
19.2%
80.8%
100.0%
19.9%
80.1%
100.0%
Total
15.1%
84.9%
100.0%
15.2%
84.8%
100.0%
Percentage of Employees Receiving Career Development Reviews (GRI 404-3)
Table 11: Percentage of employees receiving career development reviews, by gender
FY23*
FY24
No
Yes
Total
No
Yes
Total
Female
30.2%
69.8%
100.0%
21.9%
78.1%
100.0%
Male
36.4%
63.6%
100.0%
26.5%
73.5%
100.0%
Total
32.8%
67.2%
100.0%
23.9%
76.1%
100.0%
Table 12: Percentage of employees receiving career development reviews, by employee category
FY23*
FY24
No
Yes
Total
No
Yes
Total
Contributors
33.3%
66.7%
100.0%
24.2%
75.8%
100.0%
Middle Management
27.7%
72.3%
100.0%
19.4%
80.6%
100.0%
Senior Management
37.3%
62.7%
100.0%
30.5%
69.5%
100.0%
Total
32.8%
67.2%
100.0%
23.9%
76.1%
100.0%
FY23*
FY24
No
Yes
Total
No
Yes
Total
Boutique
24.9%
75.1%
100.0%
16.4%
83.6%
100.0%
Manufacturing
43.7%
56.3%
100.0%
28.9%
71.1%
100.0%
Offices
32.5%
67.5%
100.0%
26.2%
73.8%
100.0%
Total
32.8%
67.2%
100.0%
23.9%
76.1%
100.0%

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
60
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Acting on our Social Impact
Social Data Set continued
Health and Safety Data
Table 13: Statistics of work-related injuries and ill-health* in FY23 (GRI403)
Employees Work-related Injuries
FY22
FY23
FY24
Fatalities as a result of work-related injury
Number: 0
Rate: 0
Number: 0
Rate: 0
Number: 0
Rate: 0
High-consequence work-related injuries
Number: 1
Rate: 0.00326
Number: 2
Rate: 0.005899
Number: 0
Rate: 0
Recordable work-related injuries
Number: 143
Rate: 0.46647
Number: 178
Rate: 0.52497
Number: 302
Rate: 0.83724
Employees Work-related Ill Health
FY22
FY23
FY24
Fatalities as a result of work-related ill health
Number: 0
Rate: 0
Number: 0
Rate: 0
Number: 0
Rate: 0
Recordable work-related ill health
Number: 15
Rate: 0.04893
Number: 20
Rate: 0.05899
Number: 21
Rate: 0.05822
Number of hours worked
61 311 440
67 813 170
72 141 975
* 
Reporting of Health and Safety Data is based on financial year (1 April 2023 – 31 March 2024). The table has been adapted to show the FY22, FY23 and FY24 data.
In order to facilitate the review of the above table, the following definitions are provided:
High-consequence work-related injury: work-related injury that results in a fatality or in an injury from which the worker cannot, does 
not, or is not expected to recover fully to pre-injury health status within six months.
High-consequence work-related injury rate = (Number of high-consequence work-related injuries* 200 000) / number of hours worked.
Recordable work-related injury or ill health:
 
– Any work-related fatality;
 
– Any work-related injury or illness that results in loss of consciousness, days away from work, restricted work or transfer to another job;
 
– Any work-related injury or illness requiring medical treatment beyond first aid;
 
– Any work-related diagnosed case of cancer, chronic irreversible diseases, fractured or cracked bones or teeth and punctured eardrums.
Recordable work-related injury or ill health rate = (Number of recordable injuries or ill health* 200 000) / number of hours worked.
Number of Participants per H&S Training Module
33 567 Completed H&S Modules in FY24 (30 399 completed in FY23).
5 662
184
874
3 537
5 460
6 194
5 475
3 519
768
871
517
1 945
1 246
2 593
2 876
3 261
185
1 272
992
6 091
7 722
1 761
1 252
639
129
53
1 291
420
2 231
6 268
Avoid Slips, Trips and Falls
Chemical Spill Response
Electrical Safety in a Nutshell
Environment & You
Ergonomics & You
Evaluation Basics in a Nutshell
Fire Basics in a Nutshell
First Aid & You
Handle Your Chemicals Safely
Home Ofﬁce & You
Home Ofﬁce & You – The Video
Keeping Covid-19 Away
Know Your Chemical Labels
Safe Methods for Carrying Items and Climbing Ladders
Safety & You
  FY24   
  FY23

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
61
Influencing our 
Supply Chain

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
62
Influencing our Supply Chain
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Richemont predominantly produces its creations in Europe and 
aims to encourage and shape responsible conduct in all material 
aspects within its supply chains. The Group continues to build its 
management system to enable the identification and mitigation 
of potential ESG impacts and risks along its supply chains. This 
effort is supported by the Group’s Supplier Code of Conduct 
(SCoC) and active promotion of certification standards, such as 
those of the Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC). In this respect, 
collaboration across Richemont’s supply chains is an enabler to 
foster continuous improvement.
Management Approach
The Group acknowledges the complexities involved in addressing 
material topics related to the supply chain. Achieving supply 
chain transparency and traceability, for instance, can present its 
own set of challenges. In response, Richemont adopts a proactive 
and diligent approach. This also applies to other material topics, 
such as conflict minerals, human rights, labour standards, as well 
as animal welfare.
Additional details on these assessments are described in the 
Introduction and Sustainability Governance chapters, specifically 
in Business and Human Rights subsection. The Group has a 
substantial and diverse number of suppliers around the world.
With a risk-based approach in mind, the Group has enhanced its 
management systems tailored to risk assessment and due 
diligence processes for the supply chains of gold, diamonds, 
coloured gemstones, leather, and watch components, building 
on the identified material topics.
Additional details about how Richemont is ensuring responsible 
sourcing across these supply chains are provided in the following 
sections of this chapter.
Richemont is consolidating its practices and streamlining its supply 
chain governance, assessment methodologies and actions 
across its Maisons. In FY24, the Group developed the Responsible 
Sourcing Handbook, available internally, to establish a common 
framework around risk management and the due diligence 
methodologies implemented in raw material supply chains, in line 
with the Group’s values and applicable legal requirements.
The SCoC, the Raw Materials Sourcing Policy and the Group 
Procurement Policy, as further described below and in the following 
subchapters, provide the foundation of the Group’s responsible 
sourcing approach. The Human Rights Statement, published in 
FY24, aims to strengthen the current standards and reinforce the 
Group’s commitment to addressing human rights risks. The 
dedicated section within the Sustainability Governance chapter 
provides further details on the Group’s approach to human rights, 
including priority areas with respect to supply chains. Richemont 
also adheres to the requirements of Articles 964 j-l of the Swiss Code 
of Obligations. The Group’s disclosure relating to conflict minerals 
and child labour is provided in the Appendix.
Policies and Standards
Richemont’s SCoC outlines the requirements that suppliers must 
comply with, including business ethics, labour and human rights, 
and environmental protection. The SCoC is based on the 
International Labour Organization (ILO) conventions, the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights, and the Organisation for Economic 
Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines. The SCoC is 
updated regularly to further strengthen the Group’s compliance 
procedures and to provide clear guidance to its business partners. 
The following subsections highlight how SCoC principles are 
mirrored in the management systems of, amongst others, gold, 
diamonds, coloured gemstones, leather and watch components 
supply chains. With respect to the SCoC’s provisions on animal 
welfare, the Group recognises the importance of addressing 
any compliance risks related to the trade in protected species. 
Details about the coverage of the SCoC are available in the 
dedicated SCoC performance table in this section.
Richemont requires its business partners to adhere to certification 
systems such as those of the Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC), 
the Leather Working Group (LWG), ISO 14001, ISO 45001, and 
SA8000. In addition, supplier audits based on the Sedex Members 
Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) methodology are conducted. SMETA 
is the most widely used format for social audits in the world, 
enabling businesses to assess their sites and suppliers to understand 
working conditions in their supply chain. The SMETA audit assesses 
standards 
of 
labour, 
health 
and 
safety, 
environmental 
performance, and ethics within a supplier site and is designed to 
help protect workers from unsafe conditions, overwork, 
discrimination, low pay, and forced labour. Delivered by an 
approved auditor company, any required corrective action plan 
are then provided to help the supplier improve performance in 
these areas. By implementing these certifications and audit 
methodologies, Richemont aims at maintaining reasonable 
control over its suppliers’ environmental and social impacts. This 
will be explored in detail in the following sections.
An important pillar in the Group’s strategy is to promote the 
Responsible Jewellery Council’s (RJC) Code of Practices (CoP) 
and Chain of Custody (CoC) certifications across the relevant 
supply chains, as further described in the following sections.
The RJC has established comprehensive standards through its 
CoP and CoC, aimed at ensuring the integrity of the jewellery 
and watch supply chain. To gain the RJC’s CoP certification, 
members must adhere to a wide array of criteria that cover, 
among others, responsible business practices, due diligence for 
responsible sourcing, human rights, labour rights, environmental 
impact, and product disclosure. The RJC CoC certification 
focuses on the traceability of precious metals. It assures that gold, 
whether of recycled or mined origin, meets the strict sustainability 
criteria defined by the CoC standard and is handled only by RJC 
COP-certified members, whose processes guarantee that no 
gold that does not meet these conditions is mixed. These 
certifications require an independent third-party audit to verify 
the member’s adherence to both standards.
Introduction

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
63
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Influencing our Supply Chain
Introduction continued
Suppliers Code of Conduct (SCoC) Performance Table
Metric
2025 Target
Progress at
31 March 
2023
Progress at
31 March 
2024
SCoC signed*
% of purchased value from suppliers 
that signed the Code or provided 
an equivalent commitment
80%
76%
79%
SCoC signed – watches and jewellery
% of purchased value from suppliers 
that have signed the Code
80%
97%*
96%
SCoC signed – leather
% of purchased value from suppliers 
that signed the Code
100%
94%
98%
SCoC signed – marketing materials
% of purchased value from suppliers 
that signed the Code or provided 
an equivalent commitment
90%
85%
83%
* 
Restated figure; further details on the restatement is described in Basis of Preparation.
Governance and Accountability
The Group Director of Operations provides updates to the SEC on 
supply chain matters on a regular basis. The Responsible Sourcing 
team is in charge of deploying policies at the Group level, 
working across all the raw material supply chains in its scope. 
Dedicated experts are assigned to each core supply chain, who 
verify the Due Diligence process application, including risk 
assessment, and report and escalate potential impact where 
and if needed.
Core raw material supply chains are managed by Richemont’s 
Maisons and, except textiles and perfumes, coordinated and 
overseen by dedicated centres of excellence at the Group level, 
to ensure that best practices are followed in sourcing and 
procurement. The Maisons have autonomy in their procurement 
process; however, as underlined above, they must deploy the 
SCoC principles and the Group Procurement Policy.
In FY24, the Influencing Supply Chain Committee was established. 
It is chaired by Group Responsible Sourcing and includes 
representatives from Group Sustainability, Group Procurement 
and Group Legal. The Committee’s objective is to prioritise and 
oversee the implementation of ESG programmes across the 
supply chain.
Risk Management and Due Diligence
Richemont performs due diligence following a risk-based 
approach, taking into account the nature of the relationship with 
its suppliers corresponding to their risk profile.
Due diligence conducted on the direct procurement of raw 
materials follows the methodology recommended by the OECD 
and incorporates the requirements of the appropriate standard 
setting organisations (RJC, SMETA, ISO), including a specific focus 
on child labour and conflict minerals. In this context, promoting 
supply chain transparency is considered as a risk mitigation tool 
to trace raw materials back to their origin. Richemont defines 
‘Transparency’ as a capacity to identify the name and location 
of all actors in the upstream supply chains up to the origin of the 
raw material. Transparency is one of the traceability criteria.
The following subsections provide further details on risk 
management and due diligence for gold, diamonds, coloured 
gemstones, watch components and leather supply chains.
On textile supply chain, risk assessment and audits are conducted 
at Maisons level. In light with its continuous improvement 
approach, the Group is consolidating and harmonising existing 
risk management methodologies.
Following the review of indirect procurement practices to 
improve its global framework, the Group aims to seize 
opportunities and manage risks whilst remaining competitive, 
accountable, and compliant with applicable regulations. 
Building upon the global initiative to transform the Group’s 
indirect procurement organisation, supply chain- related 
practices, vendor management, procure-to-pay processes, and 
the overall control environment have been improved. The 
strategic programme for sourcing resulted in a global 
procurement transformation plan which focuses on organisation, 
processes, digitalisation and ESG requirements. To manage ESG 
risks associated with indirect procurement categories, Richemont 
evaluates suppliers leveraging documentary audits. The Group’s 
risk management strategy leverages both country and industryspecific risks identified by international standards and risk indices. 
Richemont uses ESG screening tools to benefit from recognised 
international aggregated data. Procurement categories experts 
review key spend categories to evaluate the inherent risks 
associated with each indirect procurement activity. Overall, 
the risk management approach in indirect procurement is driven 
by a rigorous methodology that leverages a blend of 
recognised  international standards, ESG screening tools, and 
expert evaluation.
In the space of the indirect procurement categories, Richemont 
prioritised those with the most potential inherent environmental 
and social significant risks, specifically related to construction 
and  maintenance, Point of Sales Materials (POSM), product 
packaging, and facilities management.
Mapping the supply chain is part of the due diligence process 
and includes the identification of suppliers through the Know Your 
Counterparty (KYC) procedure. The latter has been established 
to combat money laundering and finance of terrorism, requiring 
businesses to identify every organisation that they deal with, to 
understand the legitimacy of their business relationships and, 
within reason, to identify and react to unusual or suspicious 
transaction patterns.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
64
Influencing our Supply Chain
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Gold is and always has been one of the most sought-after 
precious metals used to make watches and jewellery. 
Given its importance to many of the unique creations that the 
Group’s Maisons design and craft, Richemont is committed to 
sourcing gold in a responsible way. This section outlines the role of 
Varinor, the Group’s Swiss-based precious metal foundry and 
refinery, that ensures a consistent and unique approach to gold 
supply 
chain 
management. 
Additionally, 
it 
details 
the 
management and due diligence processes in place to 
operationalise our responsible sourcing ambitions.
The Value Chain
Richemont centralises its fine gold procurement through Varinor, 
ensuring a unique and consistent application of sourcing rules. 
Varinor serves as the primary entry point of the gold for the Group, 
and all the gold it supplies to the Maisons must be RJC CoCcertified. In addition, Varinor purchases gold solely from selected 
suppliers following an extensive due diligence process, including 
mandatory auditing. All of Varinor’s Tier 1 suppliers are gold 
refiners and requested to be RJC CoP- and CoC-certified.
The RJC’s CoP standard outlines the criteria for implementing 
responsible practices across the jewellery supply chain, from 
mining to retail. In addition, the RJC’s CoC standard specifies the 
criteria for establishing a documented CoC for precious metals 
that are responsibly produced, processed, and traded.
Varinor has been a member of the RJC and certified according 
to the CoP since December 2011, and according to the CoC 
since December 2014. These certifications were renewed in 2023.
Management Approach
Standards and Policies
Richemont’s SCoC upholds the Group’s principles, commitments 
and requirements across the gold supply chain, and these 
standards and policies are designed to be continuously updated 
in response to industry-specific changes. The SCoC and the 
Richemont Raw Materials Sourcing Policy form the backbone of 
Richemont’s risk management and due diligence process for 
gold, as described in more detail in the subsection below.
As highlighted in the introductory section of this chapter, an 
important pillar in Richemont’s responsible sourcing strategy is 
RJC Certification System, which requires the RJC’s members to be 
audited by accredited third-party auditors in order to obtain and 
renew their certifications.
Governance
Governance of the Group’s fine gold purchases is provided by 
the Gold Sourcing Committee (GSC), which oversees the 
definition of purchasing standards, the validation of Varinor’s 
sourcing decisions, the control of the panel of existing suppliers, 
and the monitoring of purchases and due diligence reports. It is 
chaired by the Group Director of Operations, who reports to the 
Group CEO. Members of the GSC include representatives of our 
leading Watch and Jewellery Maisons, as well as the Group Chief 
Sustainability Officer, the Group Responsible Sourcing Director, 
the Managing Director of Varinor, and senior experts.
Following the recommendations of the GSC, Varinor favours as 
much as possible the supply chains of RJC CoC-certified recycled 
gold of industrial origin and old jewellery. Grandfathered gold 
can only be considered when there is a shortage of recycled 
gold and must then be submitted to the GSC for validation. Any 
fundamental modification to the gold sourcing strategy requires 
approval by Richemont’s Senior Executive Committee.
Gold

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
65
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
 
Influencing our Supply Chain
Gold continued
Risk Management 
and Due Diligence
Richemont conducts risk management and due diligence, 
guided by the policies and standards described above, to ensure 
transparency across the gold supply chain and generate 
appropriate mitigation strategies.
Varinor’s Managing Director is responsible for the company’s 
due diligence management system. This system includes 
 
risk identification and assessment for both new and existing 
business relationships.
Varinor’s due diligence process follows the OECD Due Diligence 
Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from ConflictAffected and High-Risk Areas – supplement on Gold. This includes 
red flag identification and risk management processes.
Risk Identification and Assessment
A risk monitoring system is in place for every new and existing 
business relationship. New relationships are subject to a thorough 
evaluation and approval process including a risk analysis 
assessment, review of documentary evidence, and on-site visits. 
Some of the risks associated with the supply chain include 
corruption, money laundering, and the potential introduction of 
illegitimate gold through pre-owned jewellery.
Risk Management
The due diligence management system is supported by decisionmaking guidelines regarding, amongst others, the countries of 
origin. Varinor prioritises countries that have strict laws regulating 
the trade of gold and excludes Conflict-Affected and High-Risk 
Area (CAHRA) countries. To address the potential risks, Varinor 
implements comprehensive measures upstream, including but 
not limited to, the selection of the country of origin, regular audits 
of Tier-1 suppliers, field visits of Tier-2 suppliers, and review of 
documentary evidence. UNICEF’s Child Rights in the Workplace 
Index is also utilised to assess the suppliers based on their countrylevel risk information.
Internal experts, additionally, carry out routine audits and field 
visits to oversee suppliers’ due diligence processes and gather 
information on the sources of the gold.
The Varinor due diligence system is audited every three years by 
an independent party as part of the RJC’s CoP certification 
process, and these audit results are available on the RJC website.
All of the above is supported by a supply chain traceability system. 
The Group defines traceability and transparency as follows:
 
– Traceability: A process by which Richemont tracks materials 
and products through the supply chain. Traceability criteria 
and scope depend on the supply chain and/or the product to 
be traced;
 
– Transparency: Capacity to identify the name and location of 
all actors in the upstream supply chains up to the origin of the 
raw material. Transparency is one of the traceability criteria.
4. Due diligence verification
5. Annual reporting
Red flags identified
2. Risks identification 
and assessment
1. Management systems
No red flags identified
Monitoring and evaluation for 
continuous improvement
3. Risks management
Alloyed Gold
Alloyed gold (e.g. 18-carat) is used to produce components 
 
both internally and by external suppliers.
Richemont monitors the RJC certification coverage at Tier 1 as 
detailed below in FY24: 
 
– Jewellery: 97% of the ‘façon’ value is provided by RJC CoPcertified suppliers;
 
– Watches: 99% of the gold components (in weight of gold) are 
provided by RJC CoP-certified suppliers.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
66
Influencing our Supply Chain
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Diamonds have always been an integral part of Richemont’s 
Maisons’ heritage. Each diamond that goes into creating the 
iconic pieces of the Group’s Maisons is unique, and its origin is 
guaranteed to be natural. 
To ensure that the Maisons deliver on this promise to customers, 
maintaining the integrity and responsible sourcing practices, 
Richemont has established risk management and due diligence 
processes, which are explained in detail in this section.
The Value Chain
Diamonds are extracted from mines, and passed on to the rough 
trade where they are sorted and sold based on their quality 
characteristics. 
Experienced 
craftsmen 
then 
process 
the 
diamonds by cutting and polishing the rough stones to transform 
them into faceted gems. As diamonds undergo these phases, 
they are categorised and graded based on the ‘Four Cs’: cut, 
colour, clarity, and carat weight. Richemont exclusively purchases 
cut diamonds.
Management Approach
Policies and Standards
The SCoC and the Raw Materials Sourcing Policy are designed to 
maintain a transparent and compliant supply chain while 
reinforcing the commitments and requirements of its suppliers.
Suppliers must only provide natural, untreated diamonds from 
legitimate sources that adhere to the Group’s quality, naturality 
and traceability requirements.
Richemont’s Raw Materials Sourcing Policy ensures that all 
diamonds purchased by its Maisons are compliant with the 
Kimberley Process Certification Scheme (KPCS), and all suppliers 
must comply with the System of Warranties of the World Diamond 
Council (WDC). The policy also supports origin traceability.
The Group applies its standards and relevant laws to maintain its 
responsible practices. Since 2022, ahead of the G7 regulation 
enforced in 2024, Richemont has taken appropriate measures to 
stop the sourcing of any diamonds of Russian mining origin 
extracted after February 2022. A framework has been put in 
place to govern relevant measures, such as third-party audit 
traceability campaigns to check the segregation flow for origin 
restrictions requirements. This above-mentioned restriction comes 
in addition to one existing since 2017 on Zimbabwe.
Governance
The Group Maisons are responsible for procuring their own 
diamonds while the sourcing governance is overseen by the 
Stone Supply Chain Committee (SSCC) at the Group level. 
The SSCC was established in April 2022 as the highest governing 
body that oversees risk assessments, focusing on reputational, 
environmental, social, and supplier sustainability dimensions. It 
sets the standards, procedures, and control rules for the Group 
and approves tools for mitigation and improvement. The SSCC 
conducts regular meetings during the year and the Group 
Director of Operations, who is a member of the SSCC, provides 
regular updates to the SEC and the Governance and Sustainability 
Committee of the Board.
Risk Management 
and Due Diligence
As described in its 2023 Human Rights Statement and the Raw 
Materials Sourcing Policy, Richemont is dedicated to respecting 
human rights and the Group follows policies and standards to 
achieve this goal.
In addition, as explained in the introductory section of this 
chapter, the RJC’s CoP certification provides a common 
framework for suppliers in strengthening their management 
approach with regards to ethical, social and environmental 
standards. In FY24, 97% of Tier 1 diamond suppliers are RJC-CoP 
certified based on purchased volumes.
Richemont’s risk management and due diligence practices are 
designed to identify potential adverse impacts, building on the 
methodology set within the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for 
Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected 
and High-Risk Areas. To assess the potential risk of child labour at 
country level in relation to its supply chain, Richemont also uses 
the UNICEF Children’s Rights in the Workplace Index.
As part of the due diligence process, red flags serve as a 
preliminary indicator of potential risks associated with the origin of 
the raw material, its transit route, and/or the supplier’s practices 
and location. Richemont uses various sources of information, 
such as traceability audits, ESG risk assessments, regular 
communication with suppliers, and on-site assessments to identify 
red flags.
The Group also engages with NGOs and monitors whistleblower 
reports and the general media to help identify any potential areas 
that require enhanced due diligence. If a potential or actual risk is 
identified, Richemont puts in place a risk response plan and takes 
the appropriate measures to mitigate any adverse impact.
To support suppliers and promote enhanced ESG performance, 
the Group’s field experts conduct regular follow-up visits, helping 
to develop a deeper understanding of supplier challenges to 
comply with the Group’s commitments.
Diamonds

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
67
Influencing our Supply Chain
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Coloured gemstones are integral to the identity of its Jewellery 
Maisons. They use a range of over 30 coloured gemstone types 
from more than 20 countries to create iconic pieces. 
While the Maisons are responsible for sourcing these gemstones, 
the Group oversees the sourcing governance. This section 
outlines how Richemont conducts due diligence and manages 
risks throughout the coloured gemstones supply chain.
The Value Chain
The supply chain for coloured gemstones is multi-layered. It 
involves various routes to market, specific to each type of stone, 
and dependent on the country of extraction and the country of 
cutting and polishing. Furthermore, this process can take many 
years – from the time a single stone is mined to the moment it is 
set. In this context, the group acknowledges that there is no single 
solution for traceability of the coloured gemstones supply chain.
At an industry level, the coloured gemstone supply chain can be 
divided into three stages. Firstly, the coloured gemstones are 
excavated from mines. Then, skilled artisans cut and polish the 
rough stones, turning them into faceted gems. The polished 
gemstones are then sold to wholesalers and dealers in trading 
hubs, who subsequently sell them to jewellery brands. 
Richemont does not purchase gemstones directly from mines. To 
ensure compliance with the Group’s standards and promote 
responsible sourcing, the Group and its Maisons, as part of the 
due diligence effort, engage with different stakeholders across 
the supply chain to identify and promote best practices. 
Richemont and its Maisons work on the continuous improvement 
of the coloured gemstones’ transparency and traceability, while 
taking steps to enhance supply chain practices as further 
described in the following subsections.
Management Approach
Policies and Standards
Richemont’s SCoC and the Raw Materials Sourcing Policy are 
essential for maintaining the Group’s commitment to promoting 
transparent supply chains and reinforcing its principles. 
In addition to respecting the principles set out in the abovementioned Code and Policy, Richemont’s coloured gemstones 
suppliers are strongly encouraged to achieve the RJC’s CoP 
certification, which currently covers rubies, sapphires, and 
emeralds. Richemont also considers equivalent standards where 
the principles follow the same due diligence route. More 
information on how Richemont engages with the coloured 
gemstones supply chain to promote responsible sourcing can be 
found in the following Risk management and due diligence 
subsection in this section.
Governance
The Maisons are responsible for purchasing coloured gemstones, 
similar to the diamond supply chain. The Group oversees sourcing 
governance through the Stone Supply Chain Committee. As 
further described in the section dedicated to diamond supply 
chain, this Committee, through the Group Director of Operations, 
provides regular updates to the SEC and the Governance and 
Sustainability Committee of the Board.
Risk Management 
and Due Diligence
Richemont has established risk management and due diligence 
processes to promote responsible sourcing of coloured gemstones.
These processes involve industry expertise, on-site assessments, 
and desk reviews to identify and mitigate risks. Kumi’s CAHRA 
Map and the UNICEF Children’s Rights in the Workplace Index are 
used to identify high-risk areas, and the due diligence is overall 
aligned with the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible 
Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk 
Areas. 
The 
Product 
Social 
Impact 
Assessment 
(PSIA) 
 
methodology is used in selected cases to further inform the 
 
due 
diligence 
process, 
through 
independent 
third-party 
 
on-site visits encompassing, amongst others, engagement with 
different stakeholders.
The Group also uses ‘Know Your Counterparty’ (KYC) supplier 
questionnaires to verify counterparties and maintain an 
understanding of their business.
As highlighted in the introduction, Richemont encourages the 
collective effort to enhance transparency and due diligence 
practices, as the coloured gemstone supply chains can be 
shared by other jewellery companies within the industry. An 
example being the active participation in the Coloured 
Gemstones Working Group – an alliance between leading luxury 
jewellery brands and mining companies supporting the 
collaborative development of due diligence tools and trainings 
on responsible sourcing for all tiers of the coloured gemstone 
supply chain.
Coloured 
Gemstones

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
68
Influencing our Supply Chain
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Watchmaking is a fundamental part of Richemont’s history, and 
a core pillar of its business. 
The Group has a legacy of watchmaking craftsmanship and 
continues to develop expertise and excellence in the Maison 
manufacturers and its own manufacturing competence centres. 
Richemont is proud to have the Swiss Maison Manufacturers’ 
products Swiss Made, which provides a guarantee of quality, 
precision 
and 
craftsmanship. 
This 
section 
describes 
Richemont’s responsible approach to watch components supply 
chain management.
The Value Chain
The Swiss watchmaking industry is an internationally recognised 
consolidated market, with a heritage and know-how that goes 
back centuries. For its watchmaking, Richemont mainly relies on its 
own Maisons’ manufacturing sites and internal manufacturing 
competence centres, which play an important role in the Maisons’ 
sourcing strategies, in addition to a network of high-quality and 
specialised suppliers. As a central player in Swiss watchmaking, 
Richemont works with a panel of external suppliers – privileged 
partners – to leverage the Swiss watchmaking expertise, as well as 
to engage on key topics affecting the industry. 
The Group’s privileged panel of suppliers is mainly composed of 
small to medium-sized enterprises, with whom the Maisons have 
established long-term relationships through close collaboration 
and partnerships.
The majority of the Group’s watches are considered as Swiss 
Made, with the exception of A. Lange & Söhne, which is made in 
Germany, and electronic watches of Montblanc. The Federal 
Act on the Protection of Trade Marks and Indications of Source 
(Trade Mark Protection Act, TmPA) and its Ordinance 232.119 on 
the use of ‘Switzerland’ or ‘Swiss’ for Watches, and the Guide to 
the use of the designation ‘Swiss’ for watches edited by the 
Federation of the Swiss Watch Industry (FHS), set the criteria for 
being considered Swiss Made.
Management Approach
Policies and Standards
Similar to other raw materials’ supply chains, Richemont’s SCoC 
and the Raw Materials Sourcing Policy are applicable to the 
watch components supply chain as the guiding policies that set 
the requirements for suppliers and commitment to responsible 
sourcing. They are designed to address industry-specific risks and 
upholds the Group’s principles of maintaining a transparent and 
compliant supply chain.
Governance
The management of Specialist Watchmakers and Jewellery 
Maisons is responsible for applying the policies and standards. 
The watch components supply chain is overseen by the Group’s 
Sourcing 
Intelligence 
and 
Responsible 
Sourcing 
teams. 
Specifically, the Sourcing Intelligence team gathers data from 
the Maisons to oversee the Group’s sourcing and supplier market. 
They analyse business risks associated with supply security and 
provide strategic information to the Group’s management. 
Maisons and the Responsible Sourcing team closely monitor and 
support suppliers’ compliance with the SCoC, including 
certification status.
Risk Management 
and Due Diligence
Richemont utilises a risk management and due diligence process 
that is guided by the established policies and standards described 
above. These processes are based on industry expertise, on-site 
assessments, and desk reviews.
Richemont considers the inherent supply chain risks associated 
with the production and manufacturing of watch components to 
be low, as this primarily takes place in Switzerland where domestic 
laws enforce strict regulations.
To ensure compliance with the SCoC, watch component suppliers 
are requested to possess RJC’s CoP certification or a combination 
of certifications (ISO 14001, ISO 45001, SA 8000). Alternatively, 
they must be audited in accordance with the SMETA Standards.
The farms from which the skins for watch straps originate are 
requested to be International Crocodilian Farmers Association 
(ICFA) certified, and the tanneries to be Leather Working Group 
(LWG) certified. Richemont’s due diligence process follows a riskbased approach that takes into account suppliers’ certification, 
their production site location and/or country risk, and their spend. 
As explained in the Leather section, the leather bracelets supply 
chain risks are predominantly linked with farming conditions and 
tanning operations.
Watch 
Components

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
69
Influencing our Supply Chain
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Leather is an integral part of Richemont’s legacy and a 
component in many of its products. 
The leather goods industry has a unique supply chain, and this 
section outlines how the Group implements its responsible 
principles across the suppliers it collaborates with.
The Value Chain
The supply chain for the leather goods industry forms a diverse 
ecosystem 
that 
includes 
a 
network 
of 
suppliers 
and 
subcontractors. 
Comprehensive in-depth knowledge of this network is necessary 
to ensure that the Group’s standards of responsible business and 
risk assessment processes are applied throughout, as further 
explained in the relevant subsection below. 
Hides and skins are processed into leather by tanneries before 
being processed further into the products necessary for final 
manufacturing or assembly, plus any additional metal parts. The 
Group mainly sources its bovine hides in Europe. 
Richemont’s alligator leather mainly comes from farms in 
Louisiana, USA, and suppliers must comply with the International 
Crocodilian Farmers Association (ICFA) criteria, as further 
explained in the following subsections. The tanneries for alligator 
leather are mostly in Italy, with some located in France.
Most of Richemont’s manufacturers are located in Italy, 
France  and Spain and the Group monitors its manufacturing 
production closely.
Management Approach
The Group’s SCoC is key to setting the standards and commitments 
for the leather supply chain. Richemont complies with the Trade 
in Protected Species Directive. 
In addition, Richemont is a member of the LWG, having joined in 
April 2021. This not-for-profit organisation is responsible for the 
world’s leading environmental certification for the leather tanning 
industry. Under this certification, tanneries are expected to 
demonstrate good practice in all business areas, including 
water usage.
In 2021, Richemont also became a member of the ICFA, which 
sets crocodilian farming practices with respect to animal welfare. 
By supporting the association, Richemont contributes to the 
conservation of biodiverse wetlands in Louisiana. As an ICFA 
member, Richemont contributes to the supply chain participating 
in the definition of standards.
To complement these memberships and certification standards, 
Richemont 
supports 
several 
initiatives 
that 
encourage 
collaboration within the luxury industry to improve the accuracy 
of environmental impact assessments, such as the International 
Reference Centre for Life Cycle Assessment and Sustainable 
Transition (CIRAIG) and the World Apparel and Footwear Life 
Cycle Assessment Database (WALDB).
In this space, Richemont has already undertaken a Life Cycle 
Assessment of tanning to identify options with the lowest 
environmental impact. Working with these industry bodies to 
improving the traceability of leather across the sector enables 
the identification of suppliers with the most responsible farming 
and animal welfare practices, an important standard for 
Richemont’s leather supply chain.
Governance
Richemont has a specific Sourcing Committee dedicated to the 
governance of the leather manufacturing supply chain 
monitoring and due diligence. It convenes monthly and 
 
covers topics such as the selection and validation of new 
suppliers, the review of suppliers’ performance and results 
 
of audits and controls.
Leather

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
70
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Influencing our Supply Chain
Leather continued
Risk Management 
and Due Diligence
Richemont’s risk management and due diligence processes are 
tailored to each supply chain. Due diligence processes in the 
leather supply chain include building knowledge about suppliers 
starting from a detailed selection and onboarding process.
At the beginning of a business relationship, the Group applies 
measures to identify and assess the ESG risks of new suppliers. This 
starts with a supplier onboarding process, including screening of 
social, environmental and financial measures. A first risk screening 
is conducted to assess the supplier level of compliance with the 
Group SCoC and quality specifications.
The Group has signed a manufacturing agreement with suppliers 
who assemble and manufacture the final products, to ensure 
adherence to the SCoC and compliance with applicable 
regulations, including those relating to employment, social 
security, environment, safety and tax. These agreements require 
the suppliers to declare all their subcontractors, who have to 
 
be approved by Richemont. To assess compliance with the 
principles stated in the manufacturing agreement, scheduled 
and/or unscheduled audits are conducted at both suppliers 
 
and subcontractors.
A supplier audit plan to evaluate compliance with the SCoC is in 
place and reviewed yearly. The plan takes into account previous 
audits’ results, as well as follow-ups and desktop reviews. These 
audits are conducted based on the SMETA methodology, 
described in the Introduction of this chapter. More details about 
leather supplier audits are available in the dedicated 
performance table. The current focus is on Tier 1 suppliers that 
produce finished goods, and their subcontractors, and the goal is 
to audit 100%.
Tanneries are audited every two years under their LWG 
certification. The LWG evaluates the environmental performance 
of tannery operations and rates it with gold, silver or bronze 
rankings, accordingly. In 2023, 88% of our bovine skins came from 
LWG-certified tanneries. Over the coming years we aim to 
increase this ratio. Our target for alligator leather with LWG 
certification is included in our global LWG target. For alligator and 
crocodile leather, the aim is to source 100% of skins from ICFAcertified farms, having reached 88% in FY23. For the other Tier 3 
suppliers, which includes metal parts suppliers, the Group audits 
the substantial ones.
Supplier audits on leather
31st March 2022
31st March 2023
31st March 2024
% of purchased value from Tier 1 suppliers covered by audits
88%
89%
96%
% of Tier 2 suppliers covered by audits
70%
86%
90%

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
71
Sustainability 
Governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
72
Sustainability Governance
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Promoting Transparency 
and Integrity
Conflict of Interest
Conflicts of interest have the potential to undermine the making 
of fair and ethical decisions and could compromise the Group’s 
integrity. In line with principles set in the Standards of Business 
Conduct, any situation that gives rise, or might give rise, to a 
conflict of interest must be declared as soon as it occurs, in line 
with Richemont’s core values, which include honesty, truthfulness 
and authenticity.
Every member of the Board, its standing committees and the SEC 
must manage their personal and business affairs to minimise 
potential conflicts of interest with the Group. Where conflicts of 
interest may arise, the member must make a full declaration of 
the potential conflict to their respective governing body or its 
Chair who must ensure the issue is addressed at the next meeting. 
All transactions between Group entities and members of the 
Board or the SEC must be conducted at arm’s length and 
approved by the Board without that member’s involvement.
The Chair of the Board is a member of the SEC and contributes, 
alongside the other members, which include the CEO and the 
CFO, to conducting the day-to-day strategic and operational 
administration of the Group. As aforementioned every member 
of SEC must manage their personal and business affairs to 
minimise potential conflicts of interest with the Group.
The Organisational Regulations of the Board of Directors states 
that ‘in the event that the Chairman is also a member of the SEC, 
the Board shall appoint from amongst its non-executive members 
a Lead Independent Director. “Non-executive members” refers, 
in this context, to members of the Board who do not perform any 
line management function within the Group. The Lead 
Independent Director is entitled to carry out an annual assessment 
of the work of the Board and of the Chairman and, if such 
assessment has been carried out, present its findings to the Board. 
The Lead Independent Director is also entitled to convene and 
chair meetings of the Board as he sees fit’.
Richemont’s Standards of Business Conduct set out what 
constitutes a conflict of interest and how it should be handled.
Anti-bribery and Corruption
At Richemont, there is zero tolerance for bribery and corruption. 
Richemont takes responsibility to comply with the laws, regulations 
and standards that help avoid bribery and corruption anywhere 
it does business. To continuously raise awareness on the risks 
bribery and corruption may pose to Richemont and individuals, a 
dedicated online training programme is available on the subject. 
This training is available to all employees globally on the Group 
intranet and to date has been completed by 33 234 employees.
In FY24, no incidents of corruption were confirmed, either with 
employees or with business partners.
Richemont has its own policies to ensure full compliance with the 
law along with specific policies and procedures including:
 
– Gifting and Hospitality Policy: This policy outlines the Group’s 
standards for giving and receiving gifts, hospitality, or other 
benefits. It applies to all employees, directors, temporary staff, 
contractors, agents and consultants.
 
– Sales Incentive Policy: This policy sets the Group’s standards for 
providing sales incentives to the authorised dealer network for 
meeting 
agreed-upon 
objectives 
relating 
to 
sales 
performance, brand visibility, brand activation, or other thirdparty activities, or in anticipation of legitimate actions or 
operations that solely benefit a Maison or Group affiliate in 
connection with its business or sales.
Both 
policies 
are 
available 
to 
all 
employees 
on 
the 
 
Richemont intranet.
Tax
The overall goal remains to deliver and implement a tax strategy 
that is proactively and fully compliant, competitive, sustainable, 
transparent and aligned with Group corporate objectives and 
the Standards of Business Conduct. This strategy is embedded in 
daily operations and takes account of any evolution in the global 
tax environment and its complex economic, financial and 
political dynamics.
The Board of Directors holds ultimate responsibility for the Group’s 
tax strategy, the organisation of tax functions within the Group 
and the supervision of Richemont management in relation to tax 
matters. Through the Group Tax function, management is 
responsible for proposing and implementing the tax strategy 
within the framework defined by the Board of Directors. The 
Group Tax function reports to the Group CFO.
Richemont maintains open and constructive contact and 
communication with tax authorities and other stakeholders in the 
jurisdictions where it operates, to understand governments’ tax 
policy objectives and tax authorities’ processes. This ensures 
compliance with both the letter and the spirit of relevant domestic 
and international tax laws.
For more details on the Group’s tax strategy and tax risk 
management, please refer to the tax strategy and tax risk 
management document published on the Group website.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
73
Sustainability Governance
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Maintaining the Trust 
of Clients and Stakeholders
Intellectual Property
Richemont values creativity, innovation and craftsmanship, 
which are essential to customers. The Group is dedicated to 
protecting intellectual property (IP) and combating counterfeiting 
of goods.
This safeguards the core values of the Maisons and ensures that 
their customers are not deceived by fraudulent products. 
Counterfeit goods not only damage the livelihoods of those 
involved in creating and producing genuine items, but also 
deceive customers and undermine their trust.
A proactive and reactive intellectual property strategy includes 
programmes targeting counterfeit goods both online and offline. 
This is managed by the dedicated anti-counterfeiting team 
within Group IP. Richemont collaborates with customs, police and 
administrative authorities worldwide to organise raids and seizures 
and to support criminal actions against infringers. The Group’s 
commitment further extends to a programme of civil enforcement 
through strategic litigations, which emphasises the issue and 
serves as a deterrent.
Where there is a proposed commercial relationship with an 
 
online 
platform 
partner, 
anti-counterfeiting 
commitments 
 
are negotiated with those partners as part of the overall 
contractual agreements.
The monitoring of key marketplaces and social media activities 
are entrusted to two best-in-class external vendors, ensuring a 
high level of service. Focus is on areas of concern for the Maisons, 
particularly those that may cause customer confusion or have 
high visibility. A well-funded and well-resourced programme 
allows quick response to new platforms or increased issues on 
existing platforms by reallocating resources as needed. Online 
monitoring and enforcement has a dedicated centralised 
Richemont budget. Local customs and enforcement authorities 
execute follow-up activities and raids. Offline anti-counterfeiting 
efforts are funded by dedicated portions of each Maison’s 
 
IP budget.
Supporting Standards and Sector 
Initiatives Against Illicit Trade 
Richemont is a founding member of the Transnational Alliance to 
Combat Illicit Trade (TRACIT). It lobbies for legislation globally to 
tackle the sale of counterfeit goods and builds relationships with 
governments, agencies and commercial entities to fight illicit 
trade. Richemont is also a member of Unifab, the French anticounterfeiting association that conducts legislative lobbying, 
provides training for law enforcement and fosters relationship 
building. Furthermore, Richemont is a member of the Swiss Watch 
Federation and often collaborates in their joint actions on behalf 
of multiple members.
Data Protection 
and Cybersecurity
Richemont’s comprehensive data protection strategy aims to 
achieve compliance with global data protection and privacy 
laws, provide a secure digital environment for employees and 
customers and protect Group assets and operations against 
cyber-attacks and data breaches. The strategy is overseen by 
the Strategic Security Committee, which aims to protect assets, 
including confidential business information, intellectual property 
and operations against intrusive actions. It also safeguards 
people and physical assets.
Global Data Privacy and 
Compliance Programmes
The Group’s Data Privacy Strategy is based on the following three 
commitments: 
Transparency 
& 
Trust; 
Protecting 
Personal 
information; Respecting Rights.
The Global Data Privacy Policy establishes six data privacy 
principles. These guide the Group’s processing of personal data 
for individuals worldwide, including clients, digital users, 
employees, staff, contractors, employment candidates and 
supplier representatives. The principles cover lawfulness, fairness 
and transparency, specific purposes, relevance, accuracy, 
retention and security. They enable the Group to comply with 
global data protection and privacy laws while safeguarding 
assets and operations from cyber-attacks, cyber-crime, data 
breaches and other threats.
The Group Data Privacy Strategy includes global client and 
employee data guidelines, template privacy notices, learning 
and development, a privacy representative network, client 
 
data and employee data SharePoint, security assessment 
process, contractual frameworks and operational privacy 
compliance materials.
The Group has a global privacy standard that is based on the 
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and complies with 
local requirements. These include, amongst others, the Swiss New 
Federal Act on Data Protection (nFADP), China’s Personal 
Information Protection Law (PIPL), Korea’s Personal Information 
Protection Act (PIPA), Brazil’s General Data Protection Law (LGPD), 
California’s Privacy Rights Act (CPRA)/(CCPA), Canada’s Federal 
Law Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents 
(PIPEDA), Mexico’s Federal Law on the Protection of Personal Data 
held by Private Parties (LFPDPPP) and Japan’s Act on the Protection 
of Personal Information (APPI). To support the Group Data Privacy 
Policy, Client Data Guidelines and Employee Data Guidelines 
have been developed for professionals who process client-related 
or employee-related data. These guidelines are available on the 
Group’s Data Privacy Page on the Richemont Intranet.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
74
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Sustainability Governance
Maintaining the Trust of Clients and Stakeholders continued
The Group ensures that individuals receive concise and clear 
information about how and why their personal data is processed, 
typically through privacy policies or notices. Template privacy 
notices have been created for online privacy policies and 
boutique guidance exists for client data and HR teams on offering 
fair and transparent notices to data subjects.
All Group employees must undertake a mandatory global 
eLearning programme on data protection and privacy. In 
addition, there are two specialist modules aimed at employees 
who regularly process employee or client data in their roles. The 
Group Security function continuously develops and implements 
new modules as part of an ongoing learning and development 
programme, covering topics such as information protection, 
cyber-awareness, phishing and social engineering.
A network of privacy representatives has been established across 
the Maisons, regions and functions. Entities have an HR Privacy 
Representative in each country where they have employees and 
a Client Data Privacy Representative is assigned for each Maison. 
The representatives serve as data privacy ambassadors, promote 
data privacy awareness and compliance in their teams and 
ensure compliance with the Group’s Global Data Privacy Policy. 
Privacy Representatives regularly consult with the Group Legal 
function for guidance and support on privacy matters.
A Client Data and HR data SharePoint has been established to 
support Privacy Representatives, human resources and client 
data teams. It has guidance and resources on data privacy 
matters and includes multiple Frequently Asked Questions 
 
(FAQ) documents.
The Group has robust contractual terms when it shares data with 
third parties, in accordance with its policy. These terms require 
business partners to comply with the Group Security Standards 
and international data transfer requirements.
The Group Legal function maintains an operational privacy 
compliance team. This team is responsible for key operational 
deliverables, including Records of Processing Activity such as 
data mapping, Data Protection Impact Assessments, Legitimate 
Interest Assessments, Transfer Impact Assessments and Data 
Subject Requests.
The majority of concerns that are raised are from clients who no 
longer wish to receive marketing communications. On average, 
the Group receives multiple requests per month from clients 
seeking to have their accounts deleted as an exercise of their 
right to be forgotten. Typically, these requests are fulfilled within 
one month of receipt. The Group receives approximately 
 
two requests per month from clients requesting access to the 
data held about them. These requests are usually fulfilled 
 
within one month of receipt, or sooner, depending on 
 
regulatory requirements.
Material client complaints concerning a Maison’s use of personal 
data are extremely rare and resolved on a case-by-case basis. 
Incidents of personal data breaches are infrequent. The Group 
has efficient processes that follow regulations on notifying 
regulators or those affected by an actual or suspected data 
breach, leading to the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, 
alteration, unauthorised disclosure of, or access to personal data.
The Group’s data systems security approach spans the full scope 
of an information security management system. Overseen and 
operated by specialist teams, it covers risk and compliance, 
training and awareness, incident management and security 
testing and is upheld by international certifications and standards. 
Business partners are also subject to robust security assessments 
and, where necessary, compliance audits. All suppliers know 
about these standards and what they mean for them (e.g. taking 
part in audits if contractually obliged). Regular privacy risk 
assessments on technology and practices affecting user data 
are conducted.
Complaints Regarding Breaches 
of Client Privacy or Losses of 
Client Data
Breaches 
and/or 
non-compliance 
with 
applicable 
data 
protection, privacy and cybersecurity laws and regulations could 
result in significant legal and regulatory risk exposure for the 
Group. This could expose the Group and/or its Maisons to actual 
negative and immediate impacts, including potential fines, as 
well as business suspension or reputational damage. Data 
breaches and other cybersecurity incidents represent a potential 
long-term threat to the Group’s business model and could 
ultimately lead to the disruption of critical infrastructure giving rise 
to environmental consequences. These threats also potentially 
violate individuals’ human rights to privacy.
To address any potential or actual negative impacts, the Group 
has a comprehensive data protection, privacy and cybersecurity 
strategy that adopts a ‘privacy by design’ approach. The Group’s 
data protection, privacy and cybersecurity strategy can 
generate an actual positive impact on the economy by 
promoting trust and confidence in the Group’s products and/or 
services through a ‘privacy by design’ approach that promotes 
transparency and trust, protects the information of stakeholders, 
and respects their rights.
The safeguarding of stakeholders’ privacy rights also respects their 
human rights. The Group therefore balances all the rights and risks 
to ensure it is able to successfully implement a robust data 
protection, privacy and cybersecurity strategy to promote 
sustainable economic growth, environmental preservation and 
safeguard fundamental human rights.
Outside of the above process, the Group has transparent and 
user-friendly mechanisms for individuals to address concerns 
about data privacy and these are dealt with as part of businessas-usual client relations processes that the Group has in place. 
Each Maison privacy policy includes contact information for 
clients to ask questions or share comments about their privacy 
(see both ‘Your Choices’ and ‘Contact Us’ section of a template 
Cartier privacy policy found at: https://www.cartier.com/en-in/
resources/privacy-policy-template/privacy-policy.html). 
Moreover, every marketing communication sent to clients 
provides an option to opt out of receiving further marketing 
messages. Individuals can also access, modify, or delete their 
data through various touchpoints.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
75
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Sustainability Governance
Maintaining the Trust of Clients and Stakeholders continued
Information Management System 
and Compliance
The Group data systems security approach spans the full scope 
of an information security management system. Overseen and 
operated by specialist teams, it covers risk and compliance, 
training and awareness, incident management and security 
testing and is upheld by international certifications and standards. 
Business partners are subject to robust security assessments and, 
where necessary, compliance audits. Suppliers also know about 
these standards and what they mean for them (e.g. taking part in 
audits if contractually obliged).
Regular privacy risk assessments are carried out on technology 
and practices affecting user data, and Richemont ensure that 
the Board members responsible for the cybersecurity strategy 
have the appropriate skills and experience to carry out their 
 
roles effectively.
Product, Advertising 
and Labelling 
Richemont emphasises its commitment to adhering to consumer 
protection regulations with a focus on ensuring truthfulness and 
accuracy in its marketing, advertising and labelling practices. At 
the heart of this commitment is a robust internal management 
framework, spearheaded by the Product and Trade Compliance 
(P&TC) team. Key actions include the implementation of 
regulatory tracking to stay abreast of legal changes, the 
deployment of a centrally managed Intranet platform for internal 
communications, and the provision of a comprehensive online 
library for easy access to regulatory materials.
Richemont also issues internal directives and engages in 
monitoring via a central control plan to ensure adherence to 
policies. Richemont further supports due diligence processes and 
maintains a Chemical Competence Center (CCC) to manage 
materials compliance. Additionally, Richemont facilitates access 
to specialised expertise to navigate the landscape of regulations 
effectively, underscoring its proactive approach to compliance 
and ethical conduct in its business operations. Key areas of focus 
include 
consumer 
protection, 
product 
compliance 
and 
marketing claims.
Accurate product descriptions are provided to protect consumers 
and help them make informed decisions. This includes information 
on legal based regulations related, among others, to the safety, 
sourcing, origin, content and disposal of products. For example, a 
user guide which can include relevant details on the safe use of 
products, such as the care label on garment, or user instructions 
for electronic products is provided. In addition and in accordance 
with applicable regulations, for every product sold, the country of 
origin is disclosed. Richemont is conscious of the risks related to 
misleading environmental claims made on products. Richemont 
aims to communicate truthfully about its products, prioritising 
compliance, 
specificity 
and 
scientific 
evidence 
within 
communicated claims, as outlined in an internal directive on 
Environmental Product Claims adopted in 2021 and updated in 
FY23. This directive serves to ensure compliance and prevent 
unsupported environmental claims. As part of the implementation 
of this directive, all Maisons carry out due diligence and report 
any cases of non-compliance. Any content which would be 
considered deceptive, unfair and discriminatory, based on 
prevailing standards of transparency is excluded. If any incidents 
of non-compliance arise, they are recorded and tracked, 
ensuring an improvement of internal management systems and 
implementation of internal controls.
Richemont takes great care to ensure that its marketing and 
environmental claims are made following detailed due diligence 
and can be verified and supported by scientific evidence, where 
appropriate. Richemont is closely monitoring the Directive 
Empowering Consumers for the Green Transition through Better 
Protection against Unfair Practices and Better Information, and 
the Green Claims Directive Proposal 2023/008, providing training 
and guidance for its local compliance teams.
Chemical Competence Center 
(CCC)
The responsible management of chemicals is a critical element of 
sustainable practices and is essential to guaranteeing human 
health and environmental safety. Richemont is subject to 
chemical regulations, mandatory standards and requirements 
associated with the use of chemicals worldwide. A higher degree 
of stakeholder awareness around chemical management is 
observed. In 2017, the CCC which led to the creation of a Product 
Restrictive Substance List (PRSL), a living document restricting the 
use of chemicals in products at a safe level was established. The 
PRSL is supported by testing tools that allow Maisons and their 
suppliers to check product compliance. Furthermore, in FY23, an 
internal Chemical Management Committee was launched with 
the aim to continuously improve the management of chemicals 
within the Group, boost innovation and follow up on best practices 
around responsible management of chemicals and has continued 
to act along its mission in FY24. Additional details on the CCC are 
described in the Ensuring the Health and Safety of our People 
section of the Acting on our Social Impact chapter.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
76
Sustainability Governance
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Business and 
Human Rights
At Richemont, upholding and advancing respect for the 
fundamental human rights of all people is core to the Group 
business strategy, mission and values.
Policies and practices are aligned with the United Nations 
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the 
Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), to 
which Richemont has been a participant since 2013.
Richemont is committed to upholding human rights in its value 
chain and holds its suppliers and other business partners to this 
same standard.
In addition to ongoing human rights due diligence and assurance 
practices embedded in the operations of Maisons, regions and 
functions, the Group periodically engages third-party experts to 
ensure and advance understanding of human rights risks and 
impacts. These assessments inform Richemont policies and 
support risk mitigation, governance practices and priorities.
In FY24, the Richemont Human Rights Statement was published, 
which highlights the focus areas, the impact of the Group’s value 
chains and the policies that include a focus on human rights as 
described in the following section.
A dedicated human rights training module was launched this 
year to raise awareness on the focus areas in the statement, as 
further detailed in the Tools and Training that Support Adherence 
to our Policies section.
Human Rights Governance
Richemont’s Board of Directors is responsible for defining 
Richemont’s 
human 
rights 
strategy. 
The 
Group’s 
Chief 
Sustainability Officer, who is also a member of the Senior 
 
Executive Committee (SEC), is responsible for overseeing the 
implementation of the strategy defined by the Board and 
 
making recommendations to the SEC for adopting the 
 
necessary regulations and policies and for setting up the 
appropriate bodies.
The Group’s commitment to upholding human rights is reinforced 
by a skilled and dedicated Human Rights Taskforce. This Taskforce 
comprises leaders from various departments such as Human 
Resources, Responsible Sourcing, Logistics, Security, Procurement, 
Legal, Finance, Corporate Affairs, and representatives of Regions, 
along with selected Maisons.
The Human Rights Taskforce, animated by the Group ESG Legal 
Counsel, is chaired by the Chief Sustainability Officer, who is 
responsible for ensuring the implementation of an effective 
human rights management system across the Group. This includes 
regularly reviewing and updating policies and procedures, as 
well as identifying and addressing any areas for improvement.
Due Diligence Process
The implementation of a Human Rights Due Diligence 
Management System starts by assessing the level of potential 
exposure to human rights risks. A Human Rights Risk Scan was 
conducted with the support of independent experts.
Outcomes are presented in the following table, and outline the 
activities with potential higher exposure to human rights risks, 
including raw material sourcing, making and manufacturing, 
storage, as well as transport and distribution. Due diligence 
measures have been adapted accordingly. For instance, in FY24 
a specific assessment has been performed on logistics activities 
to develop risk mitigation plans.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
77
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Sustainability Governance
Business and Human Rights continued
Human Rights Risks across the Value Chain
Sourcing and 
purchasing
Corporate 
functions
Making &
manufacturing
Storage,
transport &
distribution
Marketing,
advertising
& events
Retail &
after sales
Client
relationships
Occupational 
health and safety
Environmental 
impact
Workplace
harassments 
and violence
Working conditions
Freedom of
association and
collective bargaining
Non-discrimination and 
equal opportunities
Child labour and
juvenile work
Forced labour and
modern slavery
Right to life, linked 
to security risks
Climate and 
just transition
Conflict-affected 
and high-risk areas
Access to grievance
mechanisms and
remedy
Local communities
and indigenous
peoples’ rights
Privacy
Responsible
technology and
digital advertising
  High relevance     
  Medium relevance     
  Low relevance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
78
Sustainability Governance
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Speaking Up and 
Reinforcing our Values
The Richemont Speak Up Platform was launched in June 2022, 
and forms an essential part of the Group’s ethical framework. 
The Platform allows employees and any affected third party to 
report any concerns by telephone or an online form, with an 
option for anonymity. These reports are then escalated to the 
Richemont Speak Up Taskforce, a team of coordinators from 
relevant functions within the Group responsible for assessing 
concerns and forwarding them to an appropriate impartial issue 
owner for further investigation. All procedures are documented 
using the Navex EthicsPoint platform, which ensures an audit trail 
that meets regulatory requirements.
Richemont launched a general employee awareness campaign 
and provided Group-wide training in order to promote the Speak 
Up Platform. To date, 32 505 employees completed the training 
on Speak Up relating to reporting concerns and how these 
concerns are dealt with.
The Platform is available to all global operating entities, including 
all Maisons. Concerns are addressed confidentially and individuals 
who report issues are supported. Richemont has a zero-tolerance 
policy for any retaliation towards anyone who makes a report in 
good faith or who participates in an investigation.
In FY24, 182 Speak Up cases were reported through the Platform, 
with the most common case including inappropriate behaviour, 
employment and harassment matters.
The Group is constantly learning from the reporting of concerns 
and adapting its business practices accordingly. To ensure 
impartiality, the Speak Up reporting system is overseen by the 
Head of Internal Audit, who is independent from management 
and reports to the Chair of the Audit Committee, who is updated 
immediately on all matters of significance that are raised.
Richemont continues to raise internal awareness of the Speak Up 
Platform, and it has been extended to external stakeholders and 
third parties, allowing a broader range of individuals, regardless 
of location, to voice their concerns and contribute to the Group’s 
ongoing commitment to transparency and ethical conduct.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
79
Sustainability Governance
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Tools and Training that 
Support Adherence 
to our Policies
Richemont is deeply committed to upholding and advancing 
respect for the fundamental human rights of  all people, as 
articulated in the Richemont Human Rights Statement.
In alignment with this commitment, a global training programme 
has been launched for all employees on ‘Business and Human 
Rights at Richemont’, under the umbrella of the Richemont 
Sustainability Online Academy.
This training programme is designed to increase employee 
awareness on human rights and guide them in managing 
potential impacts. The training aims to ensure that participants 
understand human rights concepts, learn about Richemont’s 
approach to human rights, and recognise the importance of 
human rights in their roles.
This training is a key pillar of Richemont’s ESG capacity building 
strategy, playing a critical role in building the knowledge of 
employees 
and 
accelerating 
Richemont’s 
transformation 
towards sustainability.
The Group has implemented a comprehensive training 
programme to promulgate its Standards, raise awareness of their 
contents and develop employee knowledge to effectively 
adhere to them. The trainings are designed around the principles 
of the Standards of Business Conduct and emphasise the 
importance of ethical behaviour and compliance. During FY23, 
Richemont launched a series of new compliance learning 
modules aimed at educating employees on important ethical 
topics, in alignment with the four pillars of the Standard of Business 
Conduct. In parallel to the launch of the Richemont Speak Up 
Platform, which is the Group’s whistleblowing and grievance 
reporting line, the Group rolled out global and regional awareness 
campaigns on the importance of Speaking up. The platform is 
available to internal and external stakeholders in line with the 
Group’s commitment to integrity, transparency and ethical 
business practice. The Richemont Speak Up Platform is also 
referenced in Richemont’s Standards of Business conduct and 
Supplier Code of Conduct.
The Compliance Learning Series 2022/2023 have focused on 
essential 
compliance 
topics, 
including 
anti-bribery 
and 
corruption, anti-money laundering, conflicts of interest and insider 
trading. These compulsory modules are designed to specifically 
address the promotion of transparency and integrity across the 
Group’s decision-making processes, as well as to maintain the 
trust of internal and external stakeholders. The annual learning 
programme also includes training on the Speak Up Platform. This 
training has empowered the global community to report 
compliance concerns. It also underlines the Group’s commitment 
to non-retaliation and to ethical business conduct.
Additionally, the eLearning modules on ‘Modern Slavery & 
Human Trafficking’ were introduced in August 2022 and to date 
completed by more than 14 664 employees. These modules 
reinforced Richemont’s commitment to preparing for a sustainable 
future by promoting responsible supply chain practices.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
80
Appendix

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
81
Appendix
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
 
Compagnie Financière 
Richemont SA 
Bellevue, Switzerland 
Independent limited assurance report 
on selected non-financial disclosures and 
indicators included in the Non-Financial Report 
2024 
to the Board of Directors of Compagnie Financière 
Richemont SA, Bellevue
PwC Assurance Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
82
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Appendix
PwC Assurance Report continued
 
 
 
PricewaterhouseCoopers SA, avenue Giuseppe-Motta 50, case postale, 1211 Geneva 2, Switzerland 
Telephone: +41 58 792 91 00, www.pwc.ch 
PricewaterhouseCoopers SA is a member of the global PricewaterhouseCoopers network of firms, each of which is a separate and independent legal entity. 
Independent Limited Assurance Report 
on selected non-financial disclosures and indicators included in 
the Non-Financial Report 2024 to the Board of Directors of 
Compagnie Financière Richemont SA, Bellevue 
We have been engaged to perform assurance procedures to provide limited assurance on selected non-financial 
disclosures and indicators (including GHG emissions) of Compagnie Financière Richemont SA and its consolidated 
subsidiaries (‘CFR’) included in the Non-Financial Report 2024 (‘Report’) for the 12-month period ended 31 December 
2023 for Environment data and 31 March 2024 for Social and Governance information based on CFR’s financial year 
(1 April 2023 – 31 March 2024). Our limited assurance engagement focused on selected 2024 non-financial disclosures 
and indicators as presented in the GRI Content Index in the document ‘Basis of Preparation Non-Financial Report 2024’ 
of CFR (‘CFR Basis of Preparation 2024’) at https://www.richemont.com/sustainability/reports-policies/ in section 7 on 
pages 13 to 34 and marked with the check mark 
 (disclosures), and as presented in the document ‘Non-Financial 
Report 2024’ in the annex 1 of this report (indicators). 
The reporting criteria used by CFR are described in the CFR Basis of Preparation 2024, defining on pages 3 to 4 those 
principles and methodologies, by which the related non-financial indicators are internally gathered, collated and 
aggregated. The CFR Basis of Preparation 2024 is, among others, based on the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards 
(GRI Standards 2021) published by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting 
and Reporting Standard, Corporate Standard, Revised edition. Our evaluation of the selected 2024 non-financial 
disclosures and indicators (including GHG emissions) is assessed against the applicable GRI-Criteria and the GHG 
Protocol Corporate Standard (hereafter referred to as the ‘related Suitable Criteria’). 
Inherent limitations 
The accuracy and completeness of the non-financial disclosures and indicators (including GHG emissions) are subject to 
inherent limitations given their nature and methods for determining, calculating and estimating such data. In addition, the 
quantification of the non-financial indicators (including GHG emissions) is subject to inherent uncertainty because of 
incomplete scientific knowledge used to determine factors related to the emissions factors and the values needed to 
combine e.g. emissions of different gases. Our assurance report should therefore be read in connection with CFR Basis 
of Preparation 2024, its definitions and procedures on non-financial reporting therein. 
Board of Directors’ responsibility 
The Board of Directors of Compagnie Financière Richemont SA is responsible for the Report as well as for selection, 
preparation and presentation of the 2024 non-financial disclosures and indicators (including GHG emissions) in the Report 
in accordance with the CFR Basis of Preparation 2024. This responsibility includes the preparation of the document ‘CFR 
Basis of Preparation 2024’ and the design, implementation, and maintenance of related internal control relevant to this 
reporting process that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error and the appropriate record keeping. 
Independence and quality management 
We are independent of the Compagnie Financière Richemont SA in accordance with the International Code of Ethics for 
Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards) issued by the International Ethics Standards 
Board for Accountants (IESBA Code). We have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the IESBA 
Code, which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, 
confidentiality and professional behaviour. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers SA applies International Standard on Quality Management 1, which requires the firm to design, 
implement and operate a system of quality management including policies or procedures regarding compliance with 
ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
83
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Appendix
PwC Assurance Report continued
 
 
 
3 Compagnie Financière Richemont SA | Independent Limited Assurance Report 
Practitioner’s responsibility 
Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on selected non-financial disclosures and indicators 
(including GHG emissions) as presented in the GRI Content Index in the CFR Basis of Preparation 2024 on pages 13 to 
34 and marked with the check mark 
 (disclosures), and as presented in the annex 1 of this report ‘Non-Financial 
Report 2024’ (indicators). We conducted our engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance 
Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial 
information’ and the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410, Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse 
Gas Statements (‘ISAE 3410’), issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. These standards 
require that we plan and perform this engagement to obtain limited assurance about on whether anything has come to 
our attention that causes us to believe that the selected non-financial disclosures and indicators (including GHG 
emissions) presented in the GRI Content Index in the CFR Basis of Preparation 2024 (disclosures) and in the annex of 
this report ‘Non-Financial Report 2024’ (indicators) for the 12-month period ended 31 December 2023 for Environment 
data and 31 March 2024 for Social and Governance based on CFR’s financial year (1 April 2023 – 31 March 2024) were 
not prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with the Suitable Criteria. 
A limited assurance engagement undertaken in accordance with ISAE 3000 (revised) and ISAE 3410 (including GHG 
emissions) involves assessing the suitability in the circumstances of CFR’s use of applicable criteria as the basis for the 
preparation of selected 2024 non-financial disclosures and indicators (including GHG emissions), assessing the risks of 
material misstatement of these non-financial disclosures and indicators whether due to fraud or error, responding to the 
assessed risks as necessary in the circumstances, and evaluating the overall presentation of these non-financial 
disclosures and indicators. A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance 
engagement in relation to both the risk assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal control, and the 
procedures performed in response to the assessed risks. The procedures selected depend on the assurance 
practitioner’s judgement. 
Summary of the work performed 
Our limited assurance procedures included: 
• Reviewing the CFR’s policies, manuals and the CFR Basis of Preparation 2024 document; 
• Interviewing CFR’s representatives at Group and entity level from the Executive Management, Sustainability 
(environment and social), Legal, Human Resources, Responsible Sourcing, Procurement and Health, Safety and 
Environment; 
• Performing physical and virtual site visits at Maisons and legal entities in France, Switzerland, Italy, UK, USA and 
China for environmental data and health and safety data collection and reporting process; 
• Performing analytical procedures on the 2024 non-financial indicators that consisted of trend analysis and checking 
that data collected had been properly consolidated; 
• Reconciling and inspecting the relevant supporting documentation on a sample basis; 
• Performing tests on a sample basis of the selected 2024 non-financial disclosures and indicators covering 
completeness, accuracy, adequacy and consistency; 
• Reviewing the existence of the required disclosures for selected GRI standards and obtaining evidence supporting the 
statements disclosed where relevant. 
We have not carried out any work other than outlined in the paragraph above. We believe that the evidence we have 
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our assurance conclusions. 
Conclusion 
Based on the procedures we performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the selected 
2024 non-financial disclosures as presented in the GRI Content Index in the document ‘Basis of Preparation NonFinancial Report 2024’ of Compagnie Financière Richemont SA and its consolidated subsidiaries for the 12-month 
period ended 31 December 2023 for Environment data and 31 March 2024 for Social and Governance based on CFR’s 
financial year (1 April 2023 – 31 March 2024), respectively as presented in section 7 on pages 13 to 34 and marked with 
the check mark 
 (disclosures), and indicators (including GHG emissions) as presented in the annex 1 of this report, 
are not prepared and disclosed in the Report in all material respects in accordance with the related Suitable Criteria.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
84
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Appendix
PwC Assurance Report continued
 
 
 
4 Compagnie Financière Richemont SA | Independent Limited Assurance Report 
Restriction of use and purpose of the report 
This report is prepared for, and only for, the Board of Directors of Compagnie Financière Richemont SA, and solely for 
the purpose of reporting to them on the selected 2024 non-financial disclosures as presented in the 2024 GRI Content 
Index in the document ‘Basis of Preparation Non-Financial Report 2024’, as presented on pages 13 to 34 and marked 
with the check mark 
 and indicators (including GHG emissions) as presented in the annex 1 of this report, and no 
other purpose. We do not, in giving our conclusion, accept or assume responsibility (legal or otherwise) or accept liability 
for, or in connection with, any other purpose for which our report including the conclusion may be used, or to any other 
person to whom our report is shown or into whose hands it may come, and no other persons shall be entitled to rely on 
our conclusion. 
We permit the disclosure of our report, in full only and in combination with the Compagnie Financière Richemont SA’s 
Non-Financial Report and CFR Basis of Preparation 2024, to enable the Board of Directors to demonstrate that they 
have discharged their governance responsibilities by commissioning an independent assurance report over the selected 
2024 non-financial disclosures as presented in the 2024 GRI Content Index in the CFR Basis of Preparation 2024 on 
pages 13 to 34, marked with the check mark 
, and indicators (including GHG emissions) as presented in the annex 1 
of this report, without assuming or accepting any responsibility or liability to any third parties on our part. To the fullest 
extent permitted by law, we will not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Board of Directors of 
Compagnie Financière Richemont SA for our work or this report. 
PricewaterhouseCoopers SA 
Guillaume Nayet 
Pierrick Misse 
Geneva, 31 May 2024 
Enclosures: 
• Annex 1 – Selected 2024 non-financial indicators included in the Non-Financial Report 2024 to the Board of Directors 
of Compagnie Financière Richemont SA 
 
The maintenance and integrity of Compagnie Financière Richemont SA’s website and its content are the 
responsibility of the Board of Directors; the work carried out by the assurance provider does not involve 
consideration of the maintenance and integrity of the Compagnie Financière Richemont SA’s website and, 
accordingly, the assurance providers accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the 
reported non-financial disclosures, indicators or criteria since they were initially presented on the website.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
85
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Appendix
PwC Assurance Report continued
 
 
 
5 Compagnie Financière Richemont SA | Independent Limited Assurance Report 
Annex 1 – Selected 2024 non-financial indicators included in the Non-Financial Report 2024 to the Board of 
Directors of Compagnie Financière Richemont SA 
GRI standard reference 
Quantitative indicators assured 
Report page 
2-7 
Employees 
Total number of employees, and a breakdown of this total by 
gender and by region 
p. 56 
Total number of: 
• permanent employees, and a breakdown by gender and 
by region; 
• temporary employees, and a breakdown by gender and 
by region; 
• full-time employees, and a breakdown by gender and 
by region; 
• part-time employees, and a breakdown by gender and 
by region. 
p. 56 
2-16 
Communicating critical 
concerns 
Total number and the nature of critical concerns that were 
communicated to the highest governance body during the 
reporting period. 
p. 78 
2-27 
Compliance with laws 
and regulations 
Total number of significant instances of non-compliance with 
laws and regulations during the reporting period, and a 
breakdown of this total by: 
• instances for which fines were incurred; 
• instances for which non-monetary sanctions were incurred. 
p. 14 
205-2 
Communication and 
training about anticorruption policies and 
procedures 
Total number and percentage of employees that the 
organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures have 
been communicated to, broken down by employee category 
and region. 
p. 72 
205-3 
Confirmed incidents of 
corruption and actions 
taken 
Total number and nature of confirmed incidents of corruption. 
p. 72 
Total number of confirmed incidents in which employees were 
dismissed or disciplined for corruption. 
p. 72 
Total number of confirmed incidents when contracts with 
business partners were terminated or not renewed due to 
violations related to corruption. 
p. 72 
206-1 
Anti-competitive 
Behavior 
Number of legal actions pending or completed during the 
reporting period regarding anti-competitive behavior and 
violations of anti-trust and monopoly legislation in which the 
organization has been identified as a participant. 
p. 14 
302-1 
Energy consumption 
within the organisation 
Total fuel consumption within the organization from nonrenewable sources, in joules or multiples, and including fuel 
types used. 
p. 41 
Total fuel consumption within the organization from renewable 
sources, in joules or multiples, and including fuel types used. 
p. 41 
In joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: 
• electricity consumption; 
• heating consumption; 
• cooling consumption; 
• steam consumption. 
p. 41 
In joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: 
• electricity sold; 
p. 41 
Total energy consumption within the organization, in joules or 
multiples. 
p. 35

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
86
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Appendix
PwC Assurance Report continued
 
 
 
6 Compagnie Financière Richemont SA | Independent Limited Assurance Report 
GRI standard reference 
Quantitative indicators assured 
Report page 
302-3 
Energy intensity 
Energy intensity ratio for the organization. 
p. 35 
Organization-specific metric (the denominator) chosen to 
calculate the ratio. 
p. 41 
303-3 
Water withdrawal 
Total water withdrawal from all areas in megaliters, and a 
breakdown of this total by the following sources, if applicable: 
• municipal water; 
• groundwater; 
• surface water; 
• seawater. 
p. 26 
p. 40 
305-1 
Direct (Scope 1) 
GHG emissions 
Gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tons of CO2 
equivalent. 
p. 40 
Biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. 
p. 40 
305-2 
Energy indirect 
(Scope 2) GHG 
emissions 
Gross location-based energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 
emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. 
p. 26 
 
Gross market-based energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 
in metric tons of CO2 equivalent. 
p. 26 
p. 40 
305-3 
Other indirect 
(Scope 3) 
GHG emissions 
Gross other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions in metric tons 
of CO2 equivalent. 
p. 40 
 
305-4 
GHG emissions 
intensity 
GHG emissions intensity ratio for the organization. 
p. 32 
Organization-specific metric (the denominator) chosen to 
calculate the ratio. 
p. 38 
305-7 
Nitrogen oxides (NOx), 
sulfur oxides (SOx), 
and other significant air 
emissions 
Significant air emissions, in kilograms or multiples, for each of 
the following: 
• Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) 
• Volatile organic compounds (VOC) 
p. 38 
306-3 
Waste generated 
Total weight of waste generated in metric tons, and a 
breakdown of this total by composition of the waste. 
p. 38 
306-4 
Waste diverted from 
disposal 
Total weight of waste diverted from disposal in metric tons, and 
a breakdown of this total by composition of the waste. 
p. 38 
Total weight of hazardous waste diverted from disposal in 
metric tons, and a breakdown of this total by the following 
recovery operations: 
• Recycling; 
• Other recovery operations. 
p. 38 
Total weight of non-hazardous waste diverted from disposal in 
metric tons, and a breakdown of this total by the following 
recovery operations: 
• Recycling; 
• Other recovery operations. 
p. 38 
306-5 
Waste directed to 
disposal 
Total weight of waste directed to disposal in metric tons, and a 
breakdown of this total by composition of the waste 
p. 38 
Total weight of hazardous waste directed to disposal in metric 
tons, and a breakdown of this total by the following disposal 
operations: 
• Incineration (with energy recovery); 
• Incineration (without energy recovery); 
• Landfilling; 
p. 58

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
87
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Appendix
PwC Assurance Report continued
 
 
 
7 Compagnie Financière Richemont SA | Independent Limited Assurance Report 
GRI standard reference 
Quantitative indicators assured 
Report page 
• Other disposal operations. 
Total weight of non-hazardous waste directed to disposal in 
metric tons, and a breakdown of this total by the following 
disposal operations: 
• Incineration (with energy recovery); 
• Incineration (without energy recovery); 
• Landfilling; 
• Other disposal operations. 
p. 51 
401-1 
New employee hires 
and employee turnover 
Total number of new employees during the reporting period 
and rate of new employee hires during the reporting period, by 
age group and gender. 
p. 60 
403-8 
Work-related injuries 
The number of all employees and workers who are not 
employees but whose work and/or workplace is controlled by 
the organization, who are covered by an occupational health 
and safety management system. 
p. 60 
403-9 
Work-related injuries 
For all employees: 
• The number and rate of fatalities as a result of work-related 
injury; 
• The number and rate of high-consequence work-related 
injuries (excluding fatalities); 
• The number and rate of recordable work-related injuries; 
• The number of hours worked. 
p. 58 
403-10 
Work-related ill health 
For all employees: 
• The number of fatalities as a result of work-related ill health; 
• The number of cases of recordable work-related ill health; 
• The main types of work-related ill health. 
p. 58 
404-1 
Average hours of 
training per year per 
employee 
Average hours of training that the organization’s employees 
have undertaken during the reporting period, by: 
• gender; 
• employee category. 
p. 57 
404-3 
Percentage of 
employees receiving 
regular performance 
and career 
development reviews 
Percentage of total employees by gender and by employee 
category who received a regular performance and career 
development review during the reporting period. 
p. 57 
405-1 
Diversity of 
governance bodies and 
employees 
Percentage of individuals within the organization’s governance 
bodies in each of the following diversity categories: 
• gender; 
• age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 
50 years old. 
p. 56 
Percentage of employees per employee category in each of 
the following diversity categories: 
• gender; 
• age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 
50 years old. 
p. 56

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
88
Appendix
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Disclosures in Accordance with Art. 964b of the Swiss Code 
of Obligations
The below summarises how this report complies with the requirement of Art. 964b of the Swiss Code of Obligations. 
Art. 964b content requirement
Richemont’s Non-Financial Report 2024 chapter
Description of business model
 
– Introduction
Description of main risks
 
– Introduction
 
– ESG Management System
 
– Materiality Assessment
 
– ESG Risk Management
 
– Acting on our Environmental Impact
 
– Introduction
 
– Influencing our Supply Chain
 
– Introduction
Environmental matters (including CO2 goals)
 
– Introduction
 
– ESG Management System
 
– Standards of Business Conduct
 
– Materiality Assessment
 
– ESG Risk Management
 
– Acting on our Environmental Impact
 
– Acting on our Social Impact
 
– Ensuring the Health and Safety of our People
 
– Influencing our Supply Chain
 
– Introduction
 
– Sustainability Governance
 
– Maintaining the Trust of Clients and Stakeholders
Social issues
 
– Introduction
 
– ESG Management System
 
– Standards of Business Conduct
 
– Materiality Assessment
 
– ESG Risk Management
 
– Acting on our Social Impact
 
– Influencing our Supply Chain
 
– Sustainability Governance
 
– Maintaining the Trust of Clients and Stakeholders
 
– Business and Human Rights
Employee-related issues
 
– Introduction
 
– ESG Management System
 
– Standards of Business Conduct
 
– Materiality Assessment
 
– ESG Risk Management
 
– Acting on our Social Impact
 
– Sustainability Governance
 
– Business and Human Rights
Respect for human rights
 
– Introduction
 
– ESG Management System
 
– Standards of Business Conduct
 
– Materiality Assessment
 
– ESG Risk Management
 
– Influencing our Supply Chain
 
– Acting on our Social Impact
 
– Sustainability Governance
 
– Business and Human Rights
 
– Speaking Up and Reinforcing our Values
Combatting corruption
 
– Introduction
 
– ESG Management System
 
– Standards of Business Conduct
 
– Materiality Assessment
 
– ESG Risk Management
 
– Influencing our Supply Chain
 
– Introduction
 
– Sustainability Governance
 
– Promoting Transparency and Integrity

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
89
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Appendix
Disclosure in Accordance with Art. 964j-l of the Swiss Code 
of Obligations and the Swiss Ordinance on Due Diligence 
and Transparency in Relation to Minerals and Metals from 
Conflict-Affected Areas and Child Labour
The below addresses the reporting requirement of Art. 964l of the 
Swiss Code of Obligations in relation to minerals and metals from 
conflict-affected areas and child labour.
Relevant disclosures can also be found in the Influencing our 
Supply Chain chapter and in the Business and Human Rights 
section of the Sustainability Governance chapter of the NonFinancial Report 2024.
Conflict Minerals and Metals
Regarding minerals and metals from conflict-affected areas, the 
thresholds are only exceeded for tungsten and gold. However, 
Richemont has assessed that the Group only imports and 
processes in-scope materials in Switzerland from non-conflictaffected/high-risk areas. The due diligence process in place for 
the sourcing of gold, which is of great importance to some of the 
unique creations that the Group’s Maisons design and craft, is 
described in the Gold section of the Influencing our Supply Chain 
Chapter of the Report.
Child Labour
Introduction
Richemont is committed to upholding the principles outlined in its 
Standards of Business Conduct and in the Human Rights 
Statement. The Group prohibits the use of child labour across its 
operations and wants its value chain to be free from such 
practices, in accordance with the ILO Fundamental Conventions.
As described in the Introduction and in the Sustainability 
Governance 
chapters, 
Richemont 
has 
established 
a 
management system designed to identify potential risks related 
to child labour. This system takes into consideration the scope of 
the Group’s operations and the extent of its value chain. In this 
context, it is specifically the gemstone sector that is most exposed 
to child labour risk due to the localisation of gemstone deposits in 
certain regions of the world and the prevalence of artisanal and 
small-scale mining.
To support its commitments to responsible business practices, 
Richemont has developed a set of policies and standards, as well 
as implemented a Responsible Sourcing program that focuses on 
identifying and managing risks and impacts, with a particular 
emphasis on raw materials supply chains. By taking these steps, 
the Group is diligently working towards ensuring that its value 
chain is free from child labour.
Policies & Standards
As highlighted in the introduction, prohibition of child labour is 
rooted in the Richemont Human Rights Statement and in its 
Standards of Business of Conduct. Furthermore, the Raw Material 
Sourcing policy is also mirroring the Group’s commitment to 
prohibiting child labour.
Richemont is committed to ensuring responsible practices 
throughout its value chain, including its own workforce, internal 
activities, and privileged partners and suppliers. This commitment 
is reflected in the Supplier Code of Conduct (SCoC), which 
applies to all suppliers, regardless of their fields of operation, in 
both the direct and indirect procurement categories of 
Richemont. The SCoC requires that suppliers adhere to 
Richemont’s requirements and any of its subsequent amendments 
or updates, and ensure its implementation upstream to their own 
suppliers at all stages or levels of the supply chain. In accordance 
with the ILO Fundamental Conventions, the SCoC mandates that 
no individual should be employed below the age of 15 or lower 
than the local minimum age for employment and completion of 
mandatory education, whichever is the highest.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
90
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Appendix
Risk Assessment & Due Diligence
Richemont’s Responsible Sourcing and Due Diligence programmes 
have been developed in alignment with the Organisation for 
Economic 
Co-operation 
and 
Development 
(OECD) 
Due 
Diligence Guidance for Responsible Business Conduct. Richemont 
applies a risk-based approach to due diligence based on the 
UNICEF child labour country risk, as defined in the Children’s 
Rights in the Workplace Index1. The risk assessment process is 
aided by ESG screening tools that are connected to international 
sources and standards in the fields of human and labour rights. 
These tools assist Richemont in identifying potential risk areas and 
prioritising actions.
The level of scrutiny is commensurate with the risks identified, 
especially considering the potential exposure to the risk of child 
labour in the gemstone sector.
As Richemont operates on a global scale, its Responsible 
Sourcing  programme takes into account regional specificities 
as appropriate.
In relation to Richemont’s Indirect procurement categories, 
the  Group consistently applies the risk-based approach 
described above.
The Group requires third-party audits and certifications that cover 
child labour for its direct suppliers (Tier 1) as a pre-requisite.
With regards to audit and certifications, Richemont mainly 
leverages on the below, as described in the Influencing our 
Supply Chain chapter:
 
– Responsible Jewellery Council: In the space of precious 
materials, Richemont leverages on the RJC Code of Practices 
(‘CoP’), a certification system that applies to all members’ 
businesses involved in the supply chain of precious metals, 
diamonds, and coloured gemstones. The RJC COP stipulates 
that members shall not engage in or support child labour as 
defined in ILO Conventions. Furthermore, the RJC’s Due 
Diligence requirements, which are fully consistent with OECD 
Guidance, are integral part of the RJC Code of Practices 
Standards and are mandatory for all RJC certified members.
 
– SMETA audits: Richemont is an active member of SEDEX 
(Supplier Ethical Data Exchange) and deploys SMETA (Sedex 
Members Ethical Trade Audit) audits globally in its core supply 
chains. SMETA is an internationally recognised audit standard 
and evaluates all ESG dimensions of a company’s operations, 
including labour rights and child labour, health and safety, 
environmental impact, and business ethics.
 
– ISO Certifications: ISO 14001, ISO 45001 and SA8000 are required 
depending on supplier risk profile.
All of the above is supported by a supply chain traceability system. 
The Group defines traceability and transparency as follows:
 
– Traceability: A process by which Richemont tracks materials 
and products through the supply chain. Traceability criteria 
and scope depend on the supply chain and/or the product to 
be traced;
 
– Transparency: Capacity to identify the name and location of 
all actors in the upstream supply chains up to the origin of the 
raw material. Transparency is one of the traceability criteria.
Grievance and Reporting Mechanisms
Richemont holds several mechanisms to identify a potential alert 
along its value chain.
The Richemont Speak Up Platform was launched in June 2022 as a 
crucial component of the Group’s ethical standards. The Platform 
enables employees and third parties to report any concerns via 
telephone or an online form, with the option of anonymity. This 
year, it was expanded to allow third parties, such as suppliers, to 
report concerns regarding unethical and illegal behaviour.
The Group complements its responsible sourcing program with a 
red flag management process that forms part of its early-warning 
risk-awareness system. Richemont identifies red flags as preliminary 
alerts, warnings, or indicators of potential risks. These are typically 
based on factors such as the geographic origin and transit route 
of the material, as well as the location and sourcing practices 
of suppliers.
1 
Available at: http://www.childrensrightsatlas.org > data and indices

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Richemont Non-Financial Report 2024
91
Introduction
Environment
Social
Supply Chain
Governance
Appendix
Appendix
ACT
Academy of Commercial Talents
APAC
Asia-Pacific
APPI
Act on the Protection of Personal Information (Japan)
BECS
Biodiversity Extent, Condition and Significance
BREEAM
Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment 
Methodology
CAHRAs
Conflict Affected and High-Risk Areas
CCC
Chemical Competence Center
CDP
Carbon Disclosure Project
CEDAW
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination 
against Women
CFO
Chief Finance Officer
CGWG
Coloured Gemstones Working Group
CIRAIG
International Reference Centre for the Life Cycle of 
Products, Processes and Services
CITES
Convention on International Trade of Endangered Species
CPRA/CCPA
California’s Privacy Rights Act
CY
Calendar Year
DEI
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
EACs
Energy Attribute Certificates
EIA
US Energy Information Administration
ERG
Employee Resource Group 
ERM
Enterprise Risk Management
ESCP
École Supérieure de Commerce de Paris
ESG
Environmental, Social and Governance
ESG ROA
ESG Risk and Opportunity Assessment
ETVJ
Ecole Technique de la Vallée de Joux
FAQ
Frequently Asked Questions
FY
Financial Year
G&S
Governance and Sustainability
GDPR
General Data Protection Regulation
GHG
Greenhouse Gases
GRI
Global Reporting Initiative
GSC
Gold Sourcing Committee
GWh
Gigawatt hours
H&S
Health & Safety
HEAD
Haute Ecole d’Art et Design de Genève
HEC
École des hautes études commerciales de Paris
HR
Human Resources
HSE
Health, Safety & Environment
ICFA
International Crocodilian Farmers Association
ILO
International Labour Organization
IMD
International Institute for Management Development
IP
Intellectual Property
IT
Information Technology 
KPCS
Kimberley Process Certification Scheme
KPI
Key Performance Indicator
KYC
Know Your Counterparty 
L&D
Learning and Development
LCA
Life Cycle Assessment
LEED
Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design
LFPDPPP
Law on the Protection of Personal Data held by Private 
Parties (Mexico)
LGPD
General Data Protection Law (Brazil)
LWG
Leather Working Group
MEIA
Middle East, India & Africa
MIT
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
nFADP
New Federal Act on Data Protection (Switzerland)
NGO
Non-Governmental Organisation
NMVOC
Non-Methane Volatile Organic Compound
NOx
Nitrous Oxides
OECD
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
OSHA
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
P&TC
Product and Trade Compliance
PEF
Product Environmental Footprint 
PIPA
Personal Information Protection Act (Korea)
PIPEDA
Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents 
Act (Canada)
PIPL
Personal Information Protection Law (China)
POSM
Point of Sales Materials
PRSL
Product Restrictive Substance List
PSIA
Product Social Impact Assessment
PVC
Polyvinyl Chloride
QTEM
Quantitative Techniques for Economics and Management
RJC
Responsible Jewellery Council
RJC CoC
Responsible Jewellery Council Chain of Custody 
RJC COP
Responsible Jewellery Council Code of Practices 
ROA
Risk and Opportunity Assessment
SBT
Science Based Targets
SBTi
Science Based Targets initiative
SCoC
Supplier Code of Conduct
SEC
Senior Executive Committee
SDGs
United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals
SIG
Services Industriels de Genève 
SIW
Special Industrial Waste
SME
Small and Medium Enterprise
SméO
Sol, Matériaux, Energie et Eau
SMETA
Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit 
SNBS
Standard Nachhaltiges Bauen Schweiz
SoN
State of Nature
SSCC
Stone Supply Chain Committee
TCFD
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
TRACIT
Transnational Alliance to Combat Illicit Trade
UNGC
United Nations Global Compact
UNICEF
United Nations Children’s Fund
W&JI
Watch & Jewellery Initiative 2030
WALDB
World Apparel and Footwear Life Cycle Assessment 
Database
WDC
World Diamond Council
WEEE
Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment 
WOSTEP
Watchmakers of Switzerland Training and Educational 
Programme
Glossary

--- PAGE BREAK ---