2024
Sustainability
Report

Extract from the 2024
Universal Registration Document

EssilorLuxottica

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Sustainability 
Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Content
1 
General Disclosures
2
1.1 
Basis for Preparation
3
1.2 
Governance
5
1.3 
Strategy
8
1.4 
Impact, Risk and Opportunity Management
13
2 
Environmental Information
34
2.1 
ESRS E1 – Climate Change
34
2.2 
ESRS E2 – Pollution
47
2.3 
ESRS E3 – Water and Marine Resources
50
2.4 
ESRS E5 – Resource Use and Circular Economy
53
2.5 
EU Taxonomy Disclosure
63
3 
Social Information
72
3.1 
ESRS S1 – The Company’s Workforce
72
3.2 
ESRS S2 – Workers in the Value Chain
109
3.3 
ESRS S3 – Affected Communities
115
3.4 
ESRS S4 – Consumers and End-Users
120
4 
Governance Information
133
4.1 
ESRS G1 – Business Conduct
133
5 
Methodology Note
142
6 
Report on the Certification of 
Sustainability Information and 
Verification of the Disclosure 
Requirements Under Article 8 
of Regulation (EU) 2020/852
148
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
1

--- PAGE BREAK ---

1
General Disclosures
Sustainability at EssilorLuxottica
Doing good for its employees, customers, consumers, and 
communities while doing good for the planet is at the core of 
EssilorLuxottica’s sustainability program called Eyes on the 
Planet. Its commitment to carbon emissions reduction, 
circularity, world sight, inclusion, and ethics reaffirm how its 
Mission, sustainability, and business strategy are strongly 
intertwined. 
From fighting climate change, managing and reducing water 
use at manufacturing sites, improving occupational Health & 
Safety, and ensuring equal opportunities to engaging local 
communities in outreach initiatives, its Eyes on the Planet 
program consistently supports its Mission.
Through its sustainability strategy and the philanthropic 
initiatives led by the OneSight EssilorLuxottica Foundation, the 
Company contributes to 13(1) of the 17 UN Sustainable 
Development Goals (SDGs) that form the 2030 Agenda. In 
addition, the UN General Assembly resolution on vision(2) further 
supports 
EssilorLuxottica’s 
own 
ambition 
to 
eliminate 
uncorrected poor vision in a generation.
Eyes on the Planet program
with 5 strategic pillars
External recognition
AAA ESG rated from MSCI, 
constituent of the Dow Jones Best-inClass Europe Index 
Included in FT Diversity Leaders list
A- score in CDP Climate Change and 
B score in CDP Water Security
SBTi validation
of near-term emission 
reduction targets
58% of renewable energy in the 
Group’s energy mix
Alternative materials
43% of collections launched in 
2024 having alternative 
materials
63% valorised waste in 2024
86.8 million
People in underserved communities 
equipped with eyeglasses
979 million
People with permanent access 
to vision care since 2013
>5,500 employees 
volunteering
vs. 3,800 in 2023
> 9 million
Leonardo education hours 
since 2021
>83,500
Employee Shareholders
> 195,000 employees
60% Female and 35% female senior 
executives
First gender parity 
certificate obtained in Italy
Launch of Inclusion Committee
OneSight EssilorLuxottica 
Foundation collaboration with 
World Health Organization to 
advance global vision care under 
SPECS 2030 Initiative
Sustainability Report
General Disclosures
2
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
(1) 
SDG 3 ‘Good health and well-being', SDG 4 ‘Quality education’, SDG 5 ‘Gender equality’, SDG 6 ‘Clean water and sanitation’, SDG 7 ‘Affordable and 
clean energy’, SDG 8 ‘Decent work and economic growth’, SDG 9 ‘Industry, innovation and infrastructure’, SDG 10 ‘Reduced inequalities’, SDG 11 
‘Sustainable cities and communities’, SDG 12 ‘Responsible consumption and production’, SDG 13 ‘Climate action’, SDG 16 ‘Peace, justice and strong 
institutions’ and SDG 17 ‘Partnerships for the goals’.
(2) 
UN General Assembly resolution ‘Vision for Everyone: accelerating action to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals’ available at un.org.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Eyes on the Planet, EssilorLuxottica’s 
Sustainability Program
Sustainability is deeply rooted at the core of EssilorLuxottica, 
both as an essential part of the Company’s DNA and key to 
continuing its history of corporate responsibility to help people 
‘see more and be more’. First presented in 2021, Eyes on the 
Planet is based on five key pillars described below: Eyes on 
Carbon, Eyes on Circularity, Eyes on World Sight, Eyes on 
Inclusion and Eyes on Ethics. Each pillar has a clear commitment 
and is broken down into a set of core activities that are easy to 
recognize in the Company’s business model, offering presence 
and connection with local communities and territories.
•
Eyes on Carbon: EssilorLuxottica is committed to addressing 
climate change and preserving the environment by 
improving energy efficiency across facilities, increasing the 
self-production 
and 
use 
of 
renewable 
energy, 
and 
supporting the protection and restoration of natural 
ecosystems. 
Key 
milestones 
include 
reducing 
and 
neutralizing the carbon footprint of its direct operations 
(Scopes  1 and 2) globally by 2025 (already achieved in 
Europe in 2023). In addition, in 2024, Group’s emissions 
reduction targets were validated by the Science-Based 
Targets initiative (SBTi), marking a key milestone in the 
Company’s efforts to reduce the environmental impact 
across its entire value chain. 
•
Eyes on Circularity: at EssilorLuxottica, sustainability goes 
hand-in-hand with products and services, right from the 
development phase. The Company’s efforts focus on 
optimizing the use of resources while ensuring high product 
standards, with the objective to shift from fossil-based 
materials to bio-based and/or recycled materials and embed 
eco-design in all its innovation developments by end of 2025. 
Additional efforts include increasing internal recycling 
capabilities and implementing circular services to extend 
product life or give products a second life.
•
Eyes on World Sight: Based on its belief that good vision is a 
basic human right, the Group has an ambition to eliminate 
uncorrected poor vision in a generation and make vision care 
accessible to everyone, everywhere. This responsibility is 
embedded in corporate citizenship initiatives, such as 
advocacy for vision care in underserved communities 
through 
the 
OneSight 
EssilorLuxottica 
Foundation. 
Recognized for its global impact, EssilorLuxottica earned a 
spot in Fortune magazine’s ‘Change the World’ list for the 
fourth time. In addition, the Company continues its efforts to 
make art accessible for all through the ‘Eyes on Art’ initiative. 
•
Eyes on Inclusion: The Company seeks to develop a culture 
of learning, diversity and safety along with a working 
environment that offers everybody the same opportunities 
on the basis of merit and without discrimination. 2024 
marked significant progress in the Company’s Diversity, 
Equity and Inclusion (DE&I) efforts and in the deployment of 
its culture of health, safety and well-being in the workplace. 
Key milestones included: the publication of the Global EHS 
Policy as part of the Company’s commitment to safeguarding 
the environment, Health & Safety of its employees, business 
partners, customers and local communities; the introduction 
of the Global DE&I Policy to embed inclusive principles; the 
launch of the Inclusion Committee to monitor equality on a 
global scale and the rollout of ‘Your Voice’, a worldwide 
platform amplifying employee feedback.
•
Eyes 
on 
Ethics: 
EssilorLuxottica’s 
vertically-integrated 
business model is the key to delivering and ensuring a fair 
and ethical business approach wherever it has a presence. 
The Company’s Code of Ethics and Business Partners’ Code 
of Conduct establish harmonized practices and protect 
human and labor rights across its entire value chain, as per 
the International Bill of Human Rights and ILO Conventions. 
In 2024, the Group reinforced its ethical business approach 
with the launch of a new Anti-Money Laundering Policy, 
among others, and dedicated training programs for its Code 
of Ethics and anti-corruption.
Ever since its launch, the Company and its subsidiaries have 
been consistently executing projects and initiatives under each 
Eyes on strategic pillar of the program, aiming to further embed 
sustainability into its business model. By advancing its Eyes on 
the Planet program, EssilorLuxottica contributes to its Mission 
and 
involves 
the 
entire 
organization 
in 
addressing 
environmental protection, employee well-being and the 
economic and social progress of the local communities it serves.
1.1
Basis for Preparation
1.1.1
General Basis for Preparation 
of Sustainability Statements
EssilorLuxottica’s sustainability report has been prepared as part 
of the first application of the legal and regulatory requirements 
following the transposition of the European directive on the 
publication of corporate sustainability information (Corporate 
Sustainability Reporting Directive – ‘CSRD Directive’) and in 
accordance with the ESRS issued and adopted by the European 
Union from January  1, 2024 to December  31, 2024. This 
consolidated sustainability report has been prepared under the 
responsibility of the Board of Directors. It was approved and 
authorized for issue on February 12, 2025. 
The Group discloses, within this sustainability report as of 
December  31, 2024, the material disclosure requirements 
provided by the ESRS and expected by its stakeholders.
Boundaries of the sustainability report 
The perimeter considered for the consolidation of the 
sustainability information is based on the same consolidation 
principles as the consolidated financial statements and 
comprises the parent company EssilorLuxottica and its 
subsidiaries. Given the specificity of the Group’s retail network, 
franchise operations are not included, consistently with the 
absence of operational control. 
Sustainability Report
General Disclosures
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
3

--- PAGE BREAK ---

As an exception to the above principle, Heidelberg Engineering 
and 
Supreme 
are 
excluded 
from 
the 
company 
2024 
sustainability reporting (as well as from the double materiality 
analysis) as their acquisitions was finalized at the end of 2024 
and left no sufficient time for the company to analyse impacts, 
risks and opportunities and prepare related relevant and 
reliable sustainability information. 
The value chain items addressed in this sustainability report 
include both upstream and downstream actors and their 
activities in relation to the Group’s vertically integrated business 
model, from the design and manufacturing to the distribution of 
ophthalmic lenses, frames and sunglasses and their use by 
consumers. However, it should be noted that the preparation of 
sustainability information has been made complex by the 
absence of comparative data and reliable benchmarks, 
particularly at sectoral level, as well as by difficulties in collecting 
market data, especially within the value chain. Therefore, the 
value chain information is determined to the best of current 
knowledge. 
Uncertainties related to first implementation 
of ESRS standards 
This first year of implementation of the CSRD Directive is 
characterized by many uncertainties. In addition to those 
uncertainties inherent to the state of scientific or economic 
knowledge and the quality of the external data used, several 
interpretations 
of 
the 
texts 
remain, 
for 
which 
further 
clarifications from standard-setting or regulatory bodies are 
expected, particularly regarding the sectoral application 
standards of the ESRS or the application of the technical criteria 
of the Taxonomy Regulation. 
Thus, the preparation of the sustainability report is based on the 
knowledge, data, normative interpretations and information 
available at its preparation date. A better understanding of the 
requirements may be available when additional implementation 
guidance or Q&A are available. EssilorLuxottica, like the other 
Companies on the market subject to this regulation, may 
improve its understanding of the requirements of the ESRS 
standards when additional recommendations, interpretations 
and/or market positions become available regarding their 
implementation. The Group may then, if necessary, evolve 
certain reporting and communication practices, in a continuous 
improvement approach to take into consideration best practices 
and 
market 
recommendations. 
The 
double 
materiality 
assessment process will also be refined over time. 
Judgement and use of estimates 
As explained in the Methodology Note (please refer to Section 5 
Methodology Note for more details)  and under quantitative 
data tables, the preparation of the sustainability report requires 
management’s use of judgement, extrapolations and estimates 
based on the current state of scientific knowledge. Estimates 
may also be refined in future reporting periods when more 
relevant information becomes available. Key interpretation, 
uncertainties, main judgements and assumptions are clarified, 
when necessary, in the related note taking into consideration 
the methodological limitations related to the preparation of 
certain environmental indicators, including Scope 3 emissions.
Regarding EssilorLuxottica’s climate transition plan for climate 
change mitigation, it aims to provide an understanding of the 
Group’s past, current, and future mitigation efforts to ensure the 
compatibility of its strategy and business model with the 
transition to a sustainable economy (see Section 2.1.3 Transition 
Plan for Climate Change Mitigation). 
EssilorLuxottica considers that Operating Expenses related to 
OneSight EssilorLuxottica Foundation, overall total weight of 
products and of secondary reused or recycled components are 
critical or confidential for the Group and as such, are not 
disclosed in this sustainability report.
Reporting process 
Although EssilorLuxottica has implemented a risk management 
process over sustainability reporting (refer to Section 1.2.5 Risk 
Management 
and 
Internal 
Controls 
Over 
Sustainability 
Reporting), internal processes related to sustainability reporting 
will be strengthened over time. The Group will then continue to 
further improve the reliability of certain indicators over the next 
years and implement new processes to gather information that 
is not currently available. As of December 31, 2024, and for the 
reasons mentioned above, some metrics are not or are partially 
disclosed, notably metrics related to: 
•
not consolidated at Group level:
•
Pollution (ESRS E2): substances of concern/high concern, 
microplastics and air/water emission,
•
Water and marine resources (ESRS E3): water reused and 
recycled,
•
Resource use and circular economy (ESRS E5): rates of 
recyclable content in products packaging,
•
Own Workforce (ESRS S1): operating expenses (current 
financial resources allocated to action plans),
•
Business Conduct (ESRS G1): payment practices and 
percentage of functions-at-risk covered by anti-bribery 
and corruption training programmes.
These information are monitored and tracked locally where 
appropriate. Metrics are not consolidated at central level, 
mainly due to the difference of regulations that can exist 
between regions or countries. In this context, an overreliance on estimating the values might lead to unreliable 
and questionable figures. Therefore, the Group will be 
checking the relevance and materiality of these KPIs and, 
should it be the case, the appropriate processes to track, 
report, control and consolidate the information will be 
implemented. 
•
In addition, the ratio of total annual remuneration of the 
highest paid individual to the median total annual 
remuneration of all employees (excluding the highest 
paid individual) has been calculated in accordance with 
the AFEP/MEDEF regulations on a French perimeter (see 
Section 4.3.3 AFEP-MEDEF Compensation and  Benefits 
Tables ).
Sustainability Report
General Disclosures
4
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Besides:
•
Capital Expenditure (CapEx) and Operating Expenses (OpEx) 
related to: 
•
Pollution (ESRS E2),
•
Water and marine resources (ESRS E3),
•
Resource use and circular economy (ESRS E5),
•
Workers in the value chain (ESRS S2),
•
Consumers and end-users (ESR S4),
•
Business Conduct (ESRS G1);
•
CapEx related to Own Workforce (ESRS S1) and Affected 
Communities (ESRS S3);
•
OpEx related to Climate Change (ESRS E1)
are not disclosed in this document as the amounts are not 
significant relative to the Group perspective. 
Finally, the targets presented in this chapter are voluntary unless 
stated otherwise. 
1.1.2
Disclosures in Relation to Specific 
Circumstances
As explained in the Methodology Note (Section  5 for more 
details) and under quantitative ESG data tables, extrapolations 
and estimates are used for the reporting of some data points 
when necessary. Main judgements and assumptions are then 
clarified. Should changes in the preparation and presentation of 
sustainability information or modifications of data occur 
compared to the previous reporting period, this is clarified 
under the associated tables.
The Universal Registration Document (URD) provides a 
comprehensive view of EssilorLuxottica’s strategy, businesses, 
governance, and financial statements, as well as its sustainable 
development strategy and performance. The Group business 
model and strategy are presented in Chapter  1 of the 2024 
Universal Registration Document. The approach as a whole and 
all aspects generally relating to risks are presented in Chapter 2. 
The entire Chapter 4 is dedicated to Corporate Governance.
The Vigilance Plan pursuant to Article L.225-102-4 of the French 
Commercial Code is included in Chapter 2 of the 2024 Universal 
Registration Document. The Plan contains the rules applied to 
prevent the risk of serious adverse impacts on Human Rights 
and Fundamental Freedoms, the Health & Safety of people and 
the environment resulting from the activities of EssilorLuxottica, 
its subsidiaries, and suppliers.
1.2
Governance
1.2.1
The Role of the Administrative, 
Management and Supervisory 
Bodies
As at December  31, 2024, EssilorLuxottica’s Board of Directors 
comprised 14 Directors, including two members representing 
employees. The Directors have a three-year term of office 
(except for some Directors nominated in 2024 for shorter periods, 
in order to implement a staggering of the Directors’ term of 
office, as explained in Section 4.1.1.1 Composition of the Board 
of Directors at December  31, 2024 of the 2024 Universal 
Registration Document). Any new member of the EssilorLuxottica 
Board of Directors is nominated for election at EssilorLuxottica’s 
Shareholders’ Meeting by the EssilorLuxottica Board of Directors 
based 
on 
the 
recommendation 
of 
the 
EssilorLuxottica 
Nomination 
and 
Compensation 
Committee 
or 
any 
EssilorLuxottica shareholder in accordance with applicable law.
As explained in Chapter  4 of the 2024 Universal Registration 
Document, the Directors come from different backgrounds and 
they complement one another due to their different professional 
experience, their skills and their international exposure. The 
Company abides by the principle of a diverse and balanced 
gender representation on the Board, which includes: 
•
seven independent Directors within the meaning of the 
AFEP-MEDEF Code (58% of Directors); 
•
two executive directors (14% of Directors);
•
two directors representing employees;
•
six women, that is, approximately 43% of the EssilorLuxottica 
Board of Directors; and one Board Committee out of three is 
chaired by a woman; 
•
five nationalities (French, German, Indian, Italian and 
Monegasque).
Directors’ expertise and skills on sustainability topics are 
described in Section  4.1.1.2 of the 2024 Universal Registration 
Document.
The dynamism and relevance of sustainability issues, and 
especially those related to climate change, make it essential for 
the Board of Directors to be regularly updated. The Board 
acknowledges the information provided by the CSR and the 
Audit & Risk Committees following every committee meeting 
and reviews:
•
the Climate roadmap, with a focus on the progress against 
announced objectives or targets, decarbonization actions 
and investments;
•
the Company’s Eyes on the Planet sustainability program, 
which also draws upon the material topics identified during 
the Double Materiality Assessment and associated impacts, 
risks, and opportunities;
•
the 
Long-term 
Incentive 
Plan, 
which 
also 
includes 
sustainability criteria linked to the reduction of carbon 
emissions consistent with the Science-Based Targets 
roadmap;
•
the 
Universal 
Registration 
Document 
(including 
the 
Sustainability Report) and the Interim Financial Report 
(including the Mission & Sustainability first half update).
Sustainability Report
General Disclosures
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
5

--- PAGE BREAK ---

To 
strengthen 
knowledge 
on 
sustainability 
reporting 
requirements and on the concrete application of the Double 
Materiality Assessment within the Company’s sustainability 
strategy, directors are periodically involved in specific Board 
induction sessions on sustainability topics held by the 
management of the relevant functions and third-party experts. 
For other information on the composition, expertise and skills of 
Directors, please refer to Chapter  4 of the 2024 Universal 
Registration Document.
EssilorLuxottica’s Board of Directors oversees sustainability 
strategy and execution as per the Eyes on the Planet program, 
including the assessment and management of sustainability 
impacts, risks and opportunities (IROs). In this regard, the Chief 
Corporate Sustainability Officer and other managers actively 
involved in sustainability provide regular updates to the Board 
and its committees on environmental, social and governance 
matters.
•
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Committee: its main 
duty is to ensure that the Group effectively addresses the 
deployment of its Mission, which is fully integrated in its 
strategy. 
The 
CSR 
Committee 
also 
addresses 
the 
deployment of the Group’s Eyes on the Planet sustainability 
program. As detailed in Chapter  4 of the 2024 Universal 
Registration Document, CSR Committee duties go beyond 
philanthropy, sustainable programs, and compliance to 
address how the Company manages its economic, social and 
environmental impacts as well as its relationships with 
stakeholders;
•
Audit and Risk Committee: its main duties include ensuring 
the integrity of the financial statements and reviewing the 
risk assessment and risk management processes, including 
ESG risks, information security and cybersecurity risks. In this 
respect, the CSR Committee coordinates its work with the 
Audit and Risk Committee in carrying out its oversight of 
corporate processes aimed at identifying and managing 
sustainability issues and the corresponding impacts, risks and 
opportunities (IROs). To this regard, following two jointmeetings with the CSR Committee also attended by the 
Chief Corporate Sustainability Officer of the Group in 2024, 
the two committees updated the Board of Directors on the 
Double 
Materiality 
Assessment, 
through 
which 
the 
identification of sustainability priority topics and the analysis 
of the associated impacts on the environment and people, 
including impacts on Human Rights, and ESG risks have 
been carried out;
•
Nomination and Compensation Committee: its main duties 
include 
the 
assessment 
of 
company 
and 
executive 
performance, including the definition of the sustainability 
criterion 
for 
the 
long-term 
incentive 
scheme 
in 
connection  with the Eyes on the Planet program and the 
assessment of its achievement rate.
To learn more about the Committees of the Board of Directors, 
refer to Chapter 4 of the 2024 Universal Registration Document.
The EssilorLuxottica Corporate Sustainability function directly 
reports to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and leads 
efforts on environmental and social challenges while enhancing 
the development of its Company-wide sustainability strategy 
and program Eyes on the Planet. 
In this respect, the Corporate Sustainability function involves 
and coordinates with other departments, functions, business 
units and brands in the execution and development of the 
Group’s Eyes on the Planet sustainability program at global and 
local levels in a way that is consistent with EssilorLuxottica’s 
Mission and business strategy. By so doing, the Group’s 
sustainability commitments and goals are translated into 
practical action plans that are regularly reviewed and updated 
according to the five Eyes on pillars of the program (Carbon, 
Circularity, Ethics, Inclusion, and World Sight).
Nine sustainability professionals reporting to the Chief 
Corporate Sustainability Officer assist different functions, 
business units, brands and subsidiaries with the implementation 
of the Eyes on the Planet program and activate the necessary 
synergies. In addition, most functions and business units have a 
sustainability contact person, while the Operations function has 
a specific Sustainability team dedicated to Product and 
Operations Sustainability. As a result, EssilorLuxottica has a 
network of over 120 people working on sustainability projects 
and initiatives and this number is expected to increase as the 
Corporate Sustainability function expands the implementation 
of the Eyes on the Planet program to new departments, 
business units and subsidiaries consistent with the sustainability 
strategic 
priorities 
emerged 
in 
the 
Double 
Materiality 
Assessment that was conducted in 2024.
Role and expertise of administrative, management 
and supervisory bodies related to business conduct
The Board of Directors directs EssilorLuxottica’s business and 
oversees its implementation and is responsible for ensuring that 
the highest standards of responsible business conduct and the 
principles set in the Code of Ethics are applied throughout the 
Group. 
Subject to the powers expressly granted to the Shareholders’ 
Meeting, 
the 
limitations 
set 
forth 
by 
the 
bylaws 
of 
EssilorLuxottica and within the limits of the corporate purpose, 
the Board of Directors deals with all matters concerning the 
proper management of EssilorLuxottica and its group, in 
accordance with the Board of Directors’ Internal Rules. Upon the 
proposal of the Company’s management, the Board of 
Directors determines the Company’s multi-annual strategic 
guidelines on social and environmental responsibility.
The balance of power within the Company’s bodies is ensured 
by the composition of the Board of Directors and its 
committees, which comprise a high proportion of independent 
Directors and members having a wide diversity of profiles and 
skills, as shown in Section  4.1.1.2 Expertise and Skills of 
Directors of the 2024 Universal Registration Document.
Sustainability Report
General Disclosures
6
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

With reference to business conduct, the Group’s CSR and Audit 
& 
Risk 
Committees, 
Compliance 
department, 
and 
whistleblowing procedure for employees and third parties 
ensure that EssilorLuxottica’s Code of Ethics and Business 
Partners’ Code of Conduct are respected and duly applied. The 
CSR Committee reviews and monitors the Company’s policies 
on compliance and ethics matters and the systems and 
procedures in place to implement these policies and provides 
the Board of Directors with its views.
The CSR Committee is notably responsible for making 
recommendations to the Board of Directors for the following: 
•
to review the definition of the Group’s core values and ethics 
and compliance policy; 
•
to review and put forward proposals to promote the 
corporate culture and employee shareholding; 
•
to promote ethics and ensure harmonization of ethical rules 
within the Group’s entities and monitor their compliance 
thereto; it reviews the organization of the Compliance 
function and makes recommendations if any;
•
to review the Group’s Code of Ethics, rules and procedures; 
•
to receive, on an annual basis, the presentation of the 
Group’s risk map concerning ethics and compliance; it 
reviews the risks thus identified and is kept informed of their 
evolution and of the characteristics of their management 
systems. 
1.2.2
Information Provided to and 
Sustainability Matters Addressed 
by EssilorLuxottica’s 
Administrative, Management 
and Supervisory Bodies
In 2024, EssilorLuxottica conducted its first Double Materiality 
Assessment, which is reassessed on a timely basis and will be 
updated over the upcoming years.
The analysis was finalized with two workshops held with the 
Group’s Top Management, to review and discuss the materiality 
assessment process and confirm or review the materiality of any 
sustainability Impact, Risk and Opportunity (IRO).
In addition, through the preparation of periodic presentations, 
the Chief Corporate Sustainability Officer provided information 
on the outcome of the Double Materiality Assessment as well as 
on the progress of the 2024 sustainability reporting campaign to 
the CSR and Audit & Risk Committees. The Board of Directors 
acknowledged those meetings and validated the results of the 
Double Materiality Assessment in terms of material topics, 
material IROs and representation within this Chapter. 
In consideration of the evolution in sustainability reporting 
requirements, joint meetings with both CSR and Audit & Risk 
committees are set on a regular basis to discuss progress on 
sustainability reporting, the deployment of the Company’s Eyes 
on the Planet sustainability program, and the management of 
associated material impacts, risks, and opportunities. By so 
doing, each Director in the two committees and the Board at 
large 
have 
a 
clear 
understanding 
of 
EssilorLuxottica’s 
environmental, social and ethical priorities and can address 
them strategically, as well as when reviewing major transactions 
or M&A deals. For very specific sustainability compliance 
aspects, training sessions with external experts are also 
evaluated and performed upon advice of the Chief Corporate 
Sustainability Officer and the General Counsel.
1.2.3
Integration of SustainabilityRelated Performance in Incentive 
Schemes
The remuneration policy for corporate officers is defined by the 
Board of Directors based on recommendations from the 
Nomination and Compensation Committee and embeds 
sustainability considerations aligned with the Group’s strategic 
priorities in this area, as presented in Chapter  4 of the 2024 
Universal Registration Document. 
In 2024, on the recommendations of the Nomination and 
Compensation Committee, the Board of Directors revised the 
criteria for the long-term incentive plan. Besides share price 
performance, the plan is now subject to a financial objective and 
a corporate social responsibility (CSR) commitment. The 
performance conditions governing the long-term incentive 
scheme include a specific performance indicator reflecting the 
Group’s 
long-term 
commitment 
to 
climate 
change 
in 
accordance with its Eyes on the Planet sustainability program. 
The introduction of a CSR criterion is indeed intended to 
reinforce commitment to sustainability over the long term.
According to the 2024-2027 long-term incentive plan presented 
in Chapter 4 of the 2024 Universal Registration Document, the 
CSR criterion represents 20% of the vesting criteria. The chosen 
criterion is represented by the total level of carbon emissions in 
2026 considering EssilorLuxottica’s environmental sustainability 
roadmap.
The assessment scale for this criterion has been defined by the 
Board of Directors, in line with the science-based carbon 
reduction targets validated by the Science-Based Targets 
initiative, and is reported in Chapter  4 of the 2024 Universal 
Registration Document. The targeted emissions include all the 
Group’s Scope  1 (direct) and Scope  2 (purchased energy) 
emissions and the Scope  3 (indirect) emissions deriving from 
i)  Purchased goods and services (not including Equipment, 
Instruments and Wearables sub-categories), ii) fuel- and energyrelated activities, iii) upstream transportation and iv) waste 
generated in Operations. 
Sustainability Report
General Disclosures
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
7

--- PAGE BREAK ---

1.2.4
Statement on Due Diligence
Core elements of due diligence
Paragraphs in the 
sustainability statement
a) Embedding due diligence in governance, strategy, and business model
2.3 EssilorLuxottica 
Vigilance Plan (see page 
94 of the 2024 Universal 
Registration Document)
b) Engaging with affected stakeholders in all key steps of the due diligence
c) Identifying and assessing adverse impacts
d) Taking actions to address those adverse impacts
e) Tracking the effectiveness of these efforts and communicating
1.2.5
Risk Management and Internal 
Controls Over Sustainability 
Reporting
As part of its commitment to mitigate environmental, social and 
governance risks, the Group has integrated the analysis of risks 
related to sustainability topics into the annual risk assessment 
process conducted by the Risk Management function. The 
description of the main risks identified that may affect the 
Group, which include Reporting & Communication risk, is 
presented in Chapter  2 of the 2024 Universal Registration 
Document. This assessment needs to be read in conjunction 
with the main characteristics of the risk management and 
internal control systems implemented by the Company as 
described in Chapter  2 of the 2024 Universal Registration 
Document.
The Corporate Sustainability function is responsible for the 
preparation of the consolidated sustainability report of 
EssilorLuxottica. It facilitates and coordinates the different 
functions contributing to the sustainability reporting such as 
Human Resources, Environment, Health & Safety, Leonardo, 
Operations & Product Sustainability, and Quality. The Corporate 
Sustainability function issues the reporting protocol that 
includes instructions and timelines to ensure a consistent and 
reliable data and consolidation process. Besides, the open 
communication line with the different functions involved allows 
the understanding and analysis of the sustainability data and 
enables consistency in the calculation approaches including 
estimations. Regular meetings are organized with these 
functions to improve the reporting processes. In addition, to 
ensure that the sustainability reporting process is appropriate, 
specific controls and/or audits are performed by the Internal 
Control and Internal Audit Functions as second and third lines 
of defence, on strategic topics for the Group. Ad-hoc action 
plans have been defined between the Corporate Sustainability 
function, the involved functions together with the support of 
Internal Control to implement the identified improvement 
points. New processes have been implemented following these 
recommendations. The results of the Internal Audit activities 
related to sustainability reporting are also periodically reported 
to the Audit and Risk Committee and to senior management.
1.3
Strategy
1.3.1
Strategy, Business Model 
and Value Chain
EssilorLuxottica is a global leader in the design, manufacture 
and distribution of ophthalmic lenses, frames, sunglasses and 
medical technologies. With over 200,000 people in the 
workforce across 150 countries, more than 600 operations 
facilities and approximately 17,600 stores, in 2024, the Company 
generated consolidated revenue of €26.5 billion. Its mission is to 
help people around the world to ‘see more and be more’ by 
addressing their evolving vision needs and personal style 
aspirations.
The Company operates a vertically integrated business model 
directly covering every single step of the value creation process, 
from product design and development to distribution, starting 
with 
a 
powerful 
R&D platform committed to making 
EssilorLuxottica a laboratory for med-tech, design and 
innovation. 
In this respect, sustainability is a key driver of the Group’s 
innovation and growth story. With eco-design being a 
cornerstone of the Group’s innovation strategy, EssilorLuxottica 
places sustainability at the heart of product development. And a 
strong focus is put on reducing its product environmental 
footprint with thorough consideration of environmental impact 
along every step of the product development process and life 
cycle.
The Company operates an open, collaborative business model, 
that creates value for all stakeholders, including customers, 
consumers, employees, shareholders, business partners and 
suppliers as well as the communities where the Company 
operates. By partnering with key industry players, the Group 
develops groundbreaking eyecare and eyewear solutions that 
meet the world’s growing vision care demands and changing 
consumer lifestyles while inventing new ways to reach 
the billions of people who suffer from uncorrected vision. 
Sustainability Report
General Disclosures
8
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

As detailed in Chapter  1 of the 2024 Universal Registration 
Document, EssilorLuxottica’s global footprint is well balanced 
and diversified and it guarantees the highest levels of service.
Manufacturing is backed by a wide-reaching Professional 
Solutions network that serves wholesale customers with a 
unique combination of high-quality vision care products, iconic 
brands, and cutting-edge digital services and solutions. 
Professional Solutions are complemented by an extensive 
global Direct to Consumer network that offers the Group a 
unique understanding of consumer trends, both globally and 
locally, by cultivating relationships with millions of consumers 
every day, offering them high-quality vision care products, 
expert advice and iconic brands. These distribution channels are 
complemented by branded e-commerce platforms as well as 
pure digital players. 
Sustainability Report
General Disclosures
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
9

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Innovation and technological development are core priorities 
for EssilorLuxottica and are pursued thanks to a global R&D 
network focused on four areas: bringing vision to new heights; 
powering style; making eyewear a gateway into new worlds; and 
digitizing the industry from the ground up.
In addition, the Company’s science-aligned climate targets 
reinforce its commitment to leading the industry toward an 
equitable and sustainable future. In line with its 2030 Scope  3 
emissions reduction target, EssilorLuxottica is committed to 
bringing its suppliers and business partners along the Group 
decarbonization journey, in line with its open, collaborative and 
inclusive business model.
Nevertheless, understanding value-chain vulnerabilities and 
opportunities allows EssilorLuxottica to implement clear 
pathways to decarbonization and further integrate sustainability 
into its business and value creation model. Opportunities for 
value creation also emerged within the Double Materiality 
Assessment the Company performed during the year. In this 
respect, the incorporation of the double materiality principles in 
the way EssilorLuxottica engages with its stakeholders 
strengthened the alignment between financial and sustainability 
considerations. The assessment confirmed the Company’s 
strategic approach to sustainability pursued through the Eyes 
on the Planet program. By addressing each material topic and 
associated impacts, risks and opportunities in a structured 
manner, EssilorLuxottica is able to align materiality insights with 
actions for each pillar of its sustainability program, as 
exemplified below.
Sustainability Report
General Disclosures
10
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

1.3.2
Interests and Views 
of Stakeholders
EssilorLuxottica’s approach to sustainable development relies 
heavily on the environmental and social impact of its business 
activities related to various stakeholders along its value chain. 
The Company interacts with a wide range of stakeholders, 
including employees, suppliers, business partners, eyecare 
professionals, customers, authorities, and NGOs. As a global 
company, it engages stakeholders at global, regional, and local 
levels to learn about their perceptions and expectations while 
ensuring a unified and consistent presence across markets. The 
EssilorLuxottica Code of Ethics and Business Partners’ Code of 
Conduct sets forth principles that apply to all its employees, 
contractors, vendors and suppliers everywhere and in every 
circumstance. 
In 
addition, 
the 
Corporate 
Sustainability 
Communications 
Policy 
provides 
guiding 
principles 
for 
governing and coordinating the Company’s external and 
internal communication flows regarding sustainability. 
The Group aims to maintain a regular and proactive dialogue 
with all its stakeholders so that it can continuously respond to 
their needs and expectations. Stakeholders’ interests and views 
have 
been 
taken 
into 
account 
to 
build 
and 
launch 
EssilorLuxottica’s Eyes on the Planet program, including its 
approach, policies and targets. 
Depending 
on 
the 
situation, 
interactions 
between 
EssilorLuxottica and its stakeholders serve a range of purposes 
including to:
•
support people development via training and engagement 
between managers and employees thanks to continuous 
feedback processes and performance review; moreover, 
employees can express their concerns via the dedicated 
internal reporting system EssilorLuxottica SpeakUp; 
•
provide a consultation process for the purpose of 
anticipating business developments, the market and 
regulations, as well as managing risks and identifying 
opportunities; 
•
involve stakeholders in strategic decisions through customer 
satisfaction surveys, forums, training sessions, etc.; 
•
inform stakeholders by providing reliable, factual data using 
different communication methods, including brochures, 
websites, annual reviews and questionnaires; 
•
contribute to growth via partnership projects, particularly in 
the fields of health and the environment, such as support for 
patient associations, humanitarian aid programs and 
partnerships with universities. 
Relations and transparent communication with stakeholders are 
therefore key for the Company, as their needs and viewpoints 
fuel its strategy and operations. In addition, EssilorLuxottica 
communicates on its sustainability initiatives and provides 
regular updates throughout the year on its corporate channels, 
including its corporate website, social media accounts and 
Leonardo learning platform. The Group also discloses 
sustainability information to reporting platforms, such as CDP 
and S&P Global CSA.
Key stakeholders 
The dialogue conducted by EssilorLuxottica with its stakeholders has grown in importance over time. In 2024, they were involved in 
the Group first Double Materiality Assessment and in other initiatives, summarized below:
Employees, 
representative 
organizations 
and trade unions
•
Quality of working conditions
•
Work-life balance
•
Talent recruitment, attraction and retention
•
Development and training
•
Equal opportunities, diversity and inclusion
•
In 2024, 78% of the employees invited took part 
in the ‘Your Voice’ engagement survey
•
Launch of EssilorLuxottica European Work 
Council
•
Establishment of the Inclusion Committee, 
with executive management sponsors 
Workers in the value 
chain
•
Quality of working conditions
•
Work-life balance
•
Talent recruitment, attraction and retention
•
Development and training
•
Equal opportunities, diversity and inclusion
•
EssilorLuxottica Responsible Sourcing 
and Manufacturing audits
•
SpeakUp
Business partners 
(including licensors) 
and suppliers
•
Responsible sourcing
•
Collaboration on innovation and development
•
Integrity and compliance with regulations 
and laws, including Human Rights
•
Self-assessment questionnaires and 106 on-site 
audits in 2024
•
Expanded access to Leonardo, EssilorLuxottica’s 
digital learning platform
•
Access to SpeakUp (whistleblowing system)
Stakeholder group
Interests and views
2024 highlights
Sustainability Report
General Disclosures
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
11

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Clients (e.g., ECPS) 
and consumers
•
High-quality and innovative products
•
High-quality customer service and training
•
Responsible marketing
•
Integrity in business relations
•
Sustainable offering
•
Meeting health needs related to societal trends 
(e.g., digitalization and aging population)
•
Data protection
•
Exploring sustainable packaging solutions, and 
sustainability certifications, e.g., Global Recycled 
Standard Certification (GRS) at Fedon and Cradle 
to Cradle Certification for DbyD brand 
•
Extended product offerings with bio and recycled 
acetate for frames and bio-nylon for lenses
•
Awareness campaigns for parents on children’s 
visual health
Shareholders, 
investors and 
rating agencies
•
Management of sustainable development 
and ESG risks
•
Transparency and evaluation of sustainability 
disclosure
•
Progress in sustainability strategy and Eyes 
on the Planet program, including ESG KPIs, 
commitments and updates
•
Annual General Meeting: presentation of 
EssilorLuxottica’s Eyes on the Planet progress, 
including climate change
•
Investors’ meetings
•
Regular contact with ESG rating agencies, 
including MSCI, Moody’s, S&P Global and 
Sustainalytics
Public Authorities
and Governments, 
NGOs and
Consumer 
Associations
•
Social and economic impact
•
Transparency (on social initiatives, environmental 
footprint, product performance, etc.)
•
Sponsorships and philanthropy
•
Contribution to visual health and inclusive 
economy
•
Fair business practices, including responsible 
marketing
•
Dialogue, partnership and education
•
Partner of Fair Wage Network 
•
Member of Better Cotton through Oakley
•
Partner of WHO through the OneSight 
EssilorLuxottica Foundation
•
Public presentation of a five-year clinical followup study of Essilor Stellest lenses in slowing down 
myopia progression in children
•
Participation in public consultations and think 
tanks on sustainability 
Educational 
institutions
•
Cooperation for R&D and innovation 
(e.g., scholarships and partnerships)
•
Talent attraction, recruitment and development
•
Financing EssilorLuxottica Smart Eyewear Lab 
in Milan, a research platform between 
EssilorLuxottica and Politecnico di Milano, 
employing >100 researchers 
•
Supporting academic chairs such as the Circular 
Economy Chair with ESSEC and OD/PhD 
Program of the American Academy of Optometry 
Foundation (AAOF) 
Local communities
•
Employment creation and support to inclusive 
businesses and local economies
•
Raising awareness and providing access to vision 
correction and protection
•
Sponsorships and philanthropy
•
OneSight EssilorLuxottica Foundation and its 
initiatives aimed at eliminating uncorrected poor 
vision in a generation
•
In 2024, over 5,500 employees volunteered 
for the OneSight EssilorLuxottica Foundation
•
‘Eyes on Art’, enhancing cultural accessibility in 
2024 through new partnerships in Italy, France, 
and the UK
•
Over 54,000 meals have been delivered since the 
start of the meal delivery project in Italy, with an 
average of 200 meals per day
Stakeholder group
Interests and views
2024 highlights
Sustainability Report
General Disclosures
12
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

1.4
Impact, Risk and Opportunity Management
1.4.1
Description of the Processes 
to Identify and Assess Material 
Impacts, Risks and Opportunities 
– EssilorLuxottica Double 
Materiality Assessment
1.4.1.1
Introduction
The ESRS (European Sustainability Reporting Standards) require 
all companies within the scope of the Corporate Sustainability 
Reporting Directive (CSRD) to report on sustainability matters 
based on a Double Materiality Assessment (DMA). which 
expands the concept of materiality from a focus on financial 
materiality to one that includes a view of a company’s impact on 
stakeholders and society. The assessment covers the following 
dimensions:
•
‘inside-out’ view (or impact perspective), i.e., if the ESG topic 
relates to the company’s actual or potential material impacts 
on people or the environment; and
•
‘outside-in’ view (or financial perspective), i.e., if the ESG 
topic triggers or may trigger material financial effects on the 
company’s development, including cash flows, financial 
position and financial performance.
Under this double materiality concept, a sustainability topic 
meets the double materiality criteria if it is material from the 
impact perspective or from the financial perspective or from 
both perspectives. EssilorLuxottica has implemented a process 
aimed at assessing double materiality to enable the company to 
identify how its business operations impact the environment 
and the broader society including the affected stakeholders, 
throughout the value chain, while considering how external 
factors impact the undertaking’s development, performance, 
and financial position. The identification and disclosure of 
material positive and negative impacts, and financial risks and 
opportunities (IROs) in connection with each sustainability topic 
is the starting point for sustainable reporting under ESRS.
EssilorLuxottica conducted its double materiality assessment 
between March and November 2024, with a final validation from 
the Group’s top management and approval from the Board of 
Directors after the formal review of the Audit and Risk 
Committee. This assessment was jointly conducted by the 
Corporate Sustainability, Finance and Risk Management 
Departments involving different Group functions and will be 
reassessed on a timely basis, when necessary, as provided by 
the ESRS. It is also important to consider that the ESRS do not 
mandate how the materiality assessment process shall be 
designed or conducted. In addition, no harmonized practice is 
available. Therefore, judgment is required to design a process 
that follows the standards and reflects the company’s specific 
facts and circumstances. Consequently, the Group followed the 
four-step approach suggested in ‘EFRAG IG 1: Materiality 
Assessment Implementation Guidance’ to identify its material 
sustainability topics:
1.
Context analysis and identification of potential ESG topics;
2.
Identification of actual and potential material impacts, risks, 
and opportunities;
3.
Assessment and determination of the material impacts, 
risks, and opportunities related to sustainability matters;
4.
Validation of the final list of material matters and reporting.
1.4.1.2
Context analysis and identification 
of potential ESG topics
The first step in the double materiality assessment concerned 
understanding the context in which EssilorLuxottica operates, 
considering its global presence and the way it conducts its 
business. The scoping of the assessment included an 
identification of EssilorLuxottica’s main activities, strategy, the 
activities characterizing its vertically integrated business model, 
and key stakeholder groups. The approach drew from several 
sources and incorporated an analysis relative to:
•
the Group’s key activities, delineated in terms of production 
processes, distribution channels, and geographical locations;
•
the value chain, both upstream and downstream, in terms of 
involved business actors and the nature of their activities;
•
identification of key stakeholders’ groups both within the 
company and across the value chain and determining at 
which stage of the materiality assessment process their 
engagement would be most appropriate.
Building on the ten topics provided by the ESRS, a multiplelevel analysis was conducted to ensure that all material topics 
were properly included in the assessment. The main steps 
entailed:
•
an analysis of EssilorLuxottica’s sustainability strategy, 
focusing on the Company’s sustainability program, identified 
ESG risks and strategic objectives;
•
a benchmark analysis useful for identifying key ESG topics 
considered material among a defined panel of industry 
players;
•
value chain’s analysis to identify topics that may impact key 
actors, which could otherwise remain undetected;
•
analysis 
of 
additional 
topics 
through 
international 
frameworks such as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), 
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), United 
Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (UN PRI) and 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).
Sustainability Report
General Disclosures
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
13

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The outcome of this analysis consisted of a list of 81 potentially 
material ESG matters (including all sub-topics included in ESRS), 
categorized into Environmental, Social, Governance and Crosstopic dimensions before considering any mitigation measures. 
Through an online survey, a panel of 47 internal stakeholders 
were asked to identify, from this list, the matters they thought 
would not be material for EssilorLuxottica’s business and 
additional specific topics which have not been identified yet. 
Then, through an internal workshop, organized with 10 internal 
stakeholders belonging to Group’s functions of Corporate 
Sustainability, Risk Management and Finance, the final list of 
potentially material ESG matters was validated and those 
matters were clustered into 25 ‘macro’ ESG matters.
This shortlist of potential ESG matters was conceived as the 
starting point for the subsequent impacts, risks, and 
opportunities identification and their assessment.
1.4.1.3
Identification of potential material 
impacts, risks and opportunities
Following the context analysis, impacts, risks, and opportunities 
connected with the sustainability matters across the Group’s 
own operations and value chain were identified while 
considering short-, medium-, and long-term perspectives. The 
analysis included:
•
extensive desk research on emerging industry and markets 
trends and evidence;
•
benchmarking analysis of sustainability reports from 16 peers 
in the healthcare, fashion and retail industries;
•
analysis and mapping of the ESG risks identified within the 
ERM process during the previous reporting period (2023);
•
consultation with key internal stakeholders of the main 
functions, 
such 
as 
Corporate 
Sustainability, 
Risk 
Management and Finance;
•
specific focusing such as dependencies on biodiversity and 
ecosystems, sensitive sites and potential value chain impacts.
Through stakeholders’ consultation and additional inputs, all 
material current and potential IROs were derived for the 25 ESG 
matters. This comprehensive process yielded a list of 
87 potential material IROs. 
1.4.1.4
Assessment and identification of material 
impacts, risks and opportunities
To determine the final material IROs, a comprehensive 
stakeholder engagement plan was developed by selecting key 
internal and external stakeholders to be consulted via direct 
methods (e.g., interviews, workshops and surveys) and indirect 
methods (e.g., external desk research) allowing the company to 
take into consideration how the affected stakeholders may be 
impacted without taking into consideration the existing 
mitigation measures. EssilorLuxottica relied on inputs from 
sustainability, risks and subject matter experts related to several 
group functions for climate, environment, social, HSE, diversity, 
equity and inclusion, product safety and innovation, circularity, 
data privacy and governance matters. External stakeholders 
such as non-governmental organizations, suppliers, business 
partners, financial analysts, customer representatives, doctors 
and sectors associations, foundations and experts from 
academia to actively account for different perspectives about 
EssilorLuxottica’s 
sustainability 
performance 
have 
been 
included.
Internal stakeholders were asked to evaluate:
•
the impact materiality on scale, scope, irremediable 
character of impact(1) and likelihood; and
•
the financial materiality (on likelihood and economic, 
operational and reputation aspects) of the potential material 
risks and opportunities of the ESG topics perceived as more 
material for them in relation to EssilorLuxottica’s business, 
based on their specific expertise and judgement. 
External stakeholders, on the other hand, were asked to assess 
the positive and negative impacts on likelihood and severity 
(this grouping together the scale, scope and irremediability) for 
each IROs. To determine the materiality of the impacts, the 
three mentioned criteria refer to:
•
scale: how severe are the (potential) negative and positive 
impacts;
•
scope: how broad are the (potential) negative and positive 
impacts;
•
irremediable character of the impact: how difficult it is to 
reverse or compensate for the damage caused. 
Both internal and external stakeholders scored the IROs through 
detailed evaluation scales comprehensively explained via an 
online survey and had the opportunity to comment on the 
matters via open text fields. For the potential impacts, the 
additional parameter of likelihood was scored. More specifically, 
the evaluation scales were developed on a range [1 to 5], in 
alignment with the existing ERM scale in place, already adopted 
in previous years’ risk assessments. Additionally, key internal 
stakeholders participated in in-depth interviews to further 
explore the rationale behind the relevance of sustainability 
matters, based on their area of expertise. The online survey was 
sent to 115 internal stakeholders and 128 external stakeholders, 
with a total of 134 responses received: 89 from internal 
stakeholders and 45 from external stakeholders (i.e., response 
rates of 78% and 35% respectively).
Sustainability Report
General Disclosures
14
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
(1) 
Irremediability applies only to negative impacts.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Internal interviews and workshops included 18 one-to-one 
interviews and 5 workshops, each focusing on different topics, 
based on the specific expertise and background of the single 
interviewee. Altogether, they covered all sustainability IROs. The 
interviews and workshops were conducted according to an 
established and standardized approach. Each interviewee, 
depending on the specific area of expertise, was asked to give 
an explanation on the evaluations provided through the survey, 
to better understand the rationale, potential changes to their 
evaluation, and insights on the trend of the specific IROs along 
the short and long term (increase, stable or decrease) and 
where these IROs might materialize along the value chain 
(upstream, downstream, and own operations).
Specific weights have been assigned to the different 
stakeholders, depending on their area of expertise in the 
interviews. Specifically, a weight of 65% was allocated to the 
evaluation of the underlying IROs related to the ESG topics 
discussed by the interviewee, and a weight of 35% was allocated 
to the assessment of the remaining IROs and to all evaluations 
made by stakeholders who only completed the survey.
In terms of results consolidation, and to derive a prioritization of 
the ESG final matters, the underlying methodology entailed the 
selection of the highest impact (severity and likelihood) and 
financial scores (magnitude and likelihood) received by its 
related IROs, and then converted again on a scale of 1 to 5. In 
case of a potential negative Human Rights impact, severity has 
been given precedence over likelihood through the application 
of a multiplier.
Finally, the threshold to determine the materiality of the rated 
impacts, risks and opportunities has been set to grant synergy 
with the one implied in the risk assessment process, thus 
reflecting a moderate and significant impact from both 
perspectives. For what concerns time horizons, the time 
intervals considered in the double materiality assessment are up 
to one year for the short term, one to five years for the medium 
term and more than five years for the long-term time horizon.
Besides, it should be noted that to complement the double 
materiality assessment and give voice to an increasingly 
important stakeholder, nature, EssilorLuxottica has further 
included in the analysis the impacts it could have by relying on 
the data provided from the WWF Risk Filter on biodiversity. This 
consists of a further step made by the Group in the direction of 
narrowing the gap between what is perceived to be material 
from the company’s perspective and what is material from an 
environmental perspective such as, for instance, planetary 
boundaries.
1.4.1.5
Validation of final list of material IROs
The consolidation of EssilorLuxottica’s double materiality 
assessment has been performed with two final workshops held 
with the Group’s Top Management, to review and discuss the 
materiality assessment process and confirm or review the 
materiality of any sustainability IROs. In particular, the outcomes 
of interviews and workshops, alongside the quantitative result of 
the survey, were used as the basis for the consolidation of the 
materiality assessment. 
The aim of the workshops was to inform on the process, engage 
in a discussion on the DMA results, incorporate the different 
feedback 
and 
prepare 
the 
organization 
on 
the 
next 
sustainability reporting steps. In some cases, EssilorLuxottica’s 
Top Management highlighted the need to consider material an 
impact, risk or opportunity that had not previously materialized 
as such following the survey evaluation. The Top Management 
reevaluation has been taken carefully into consideration, based 
on the solid argumentation provided to support and justify the 
identified materiality changes. Then, the Double Materiality 
Analysis was presented to both the Audit and Risk Committee 
and CSR Committee.
Finally, the Corporate Sustainability department has refined the 
formulation of IROs to align with the input from the 2024 
Group’s risk assessment and reflect its constant interaction with 
other functions, latest clarifications from the regulator and 
market practices. The final list of 41 material IROs consists of 
5  positive impacts, 15 negative impacts, 15 risks and 
6 opportunities. 
Sustainability Report
General Disclosures
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
15

--- PAGE BREAK ---

1.4.1.6
Double materiality assessment outcome
Table 1 below outlines the material impacts, risks, and opportunities from EssilorLuxottica’s Double Materiality Assessment. This table 
includes an analysis of each item’s relevance over different time horizons and across various stages of the value chain.
Material ESG 
topic
IRO name
IRO description
Type 
of IRO
Value 
chain
Potential
/actual
Time 
horizon
E1 Climate Change
Climate 
Resilience
Adverse social 
impacts due to 
the disruption 
in operations 
caused by 
extreme climate 
events
Extreme climate events such as hurricanes, floods or 
droughts can ultimately lead to significant social impacts 
including job losses and reduced working hours, 
economic strain on affected communities, social unrest 
or dissatisfaction due to prolonged services outages 
or production delays. 
Negative 
impact
Value 
chain
Actual
Short
Disruption of 
activities due to 
extreme climate 
events (e.g., 
hurricane, floods, 
etc.)
Increase in extreme weather events (e.g., cyclones, 
droughts, floods, etc.) due to climate change impact 
business continuity in terms of operational disruptions, 
supply chain interruptions and stores closures causing 
capacity to be downgraded and operations to be 
temporarily stopped or shut down completely.
Risk
Value 
chain
Actual
Short
Climate 
Transition
Risks associated 
with transitioning 
to a lowercarbon economy 
(policy, legal, 
technology, and 
market changes)
Transitioning to a lower-carbon economy could imply 
the issuance of country-specific carbon regulatory policies 
or carbon taxes or stricter environmental regulations. 
Compliance with these regulations would involve the 
adoption of new, low-carbon technologies, which may 
require significant investment, pose operational 
challenges and increase production costs (e.g., raw 
materials, energy and transportation). At the same time, 
consumers’ demand for responsible products and 
services may lead to adjustments in product design 
and manufacturing and retail services.
Risk
Value 
chain
Potential Long
Energy 
consumption 
and GHG 
emissions 
The threats of high energy consumption and GHG 
emissions to climate change may translate into more 
extreme weather events, rising sea levels, and disruptions 
to ecosystems, thereby impacting biodiversity and natural 
resources, and the broader environment and society. 
Negative 
impact
Value 
chain
Actual
Short
Sustainability Report
General Disclosures
16
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Material ESG 
topic
IRO name
IRO description
Type 
of IRO
Value 
chain
Potential
/actual
Time 
horizon
E2 Pollution
Pollution 
Prevention
Risk of 
infringements of 
pollution-related 
regulations and 
of cost due to 
remediation 
actions
Failing to reduce the environmental impacts of air or 
water pollution from the manufacturing sites and lens 
laboratories could lead to non-compliance with pollution 
prevention regulations, resulting in penalties, fines, 
increased operational costs and legal liabilities. 
Additionally, regulatory violations could damage the 
company’s reputation, leading to loss of consumer trust, 
investor confidence, and market competitiveness.
Risk
Own 
operations
Potential Medium
Product 
Safety
Potential impact 
on human health 
and the 
environment
Potential exposure to substances of concern and 
microplastics could threaten health, causing allergic 
reactions, toxicity, or long-term health issues. 
Additionally, the release of microplastics and harmful 
chemicals into the environment during production 
process, use, or disposal of products can lead water 
contamination and contribute to broader environmental 
degradation. 
Negative 
impact
Value 
chain
Potential Long
E3 Water and Marine Resources
Water 
Manage-ment 
Risk of inefficient 
water 
management 
practices
Excessive water use and withdrawals, uncontrolled 
discharges or leaks of waste-water can disrupt supply 
chains, particularly for water-dependent processes 
leading to higher operational costs, production delays, 
potential water pollution and regulatory fines.
Risk
Own 
operations
Potential Medium
Use of water 
resources that 
might impact 
local 
communities and 
the environment
Negative environmental damage (e.g., depletion of 
natural water resources resulting in the decay of related 
ecosystem services) due to inadequate water 
management, particularly in water-stressed areas, 
that can impact local communities.
Negative 
impact
Own 
operations
Actual
Short
Sustainability Report
General Disclosures
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
17

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Material ESG 
topic
IRO name
IRO description
Type 
of IRO
Value 
chain
Potential
/actual
Time 
horizon
E5 Circular Economy
Circular 
Sources, 
Product and 
Services
Use of raw 
material and 
natural resources
Excessive extraction and inefficient use of key resources 
(such as fossil based materials, metal) can lead to the 
depletion of finite natural reserves, contributing to 
environmental degradation. 
Negative 
impact
Value 
chain
Actual
Short
Developing 
alternative 
materials 
(to the benefit 
of the entire 
industry)
Embracing advanced technologies (e.g., alternative 
materials, reuse, increasing renewable and recycled 
content) to reduce reliance on traditional, finite resources 
can support the Company’s positioning as a leader in 
sustainable innovation. This shift allows the company 
to explore and adopt new, eco-friendly materials that 
minimize environmental impact, increase production 
efficiencies and savings, and align with evolving consumer 
demand for more sustainable products, ultimately 
affecting the broader industry, as these innovations 
can set new standards for sustainability and resource 
efficiency.
Opportunity
Own 
operations
Actual
Short
Risk of limited 
access to certain 
raw materials 
(scarcity, 
stringent 
regulations)
Growing global demand for key resources has 
heightened scarcity, driving up costs and complicating 
procurement processes. Additionally, evolving 
environmental regulations aimed at protecting natural 
ecosystems impose stricter requirements, limiting access 
to raw materials and increasing compliance costs. These 
challenges can lead to production delays, rising 
operational expenses, and diminished competitiveness.
Risk
Value 
chain
Potential Long
Risk of not 
answering 
product and 
services 
sustainability 
expectations
Failure to meet sustainability expectations, that entails 
reducing resource outflows by designing products for 
longevity, recyclability, and reusability can lead to 
increased reputational damage, as consumers 
increasingly prefer environmentally responsible products, 
leading to loss of market share and reduced revenue.
Risk
Own 
operations
Potential Medium
Waste 
Manage-ment 
Risk of lack of 
compliance with 
waste regulation 
Improper management of waste poses risks for 
organizations, including increased costs and reputational 
damage. Non-compliance with environmental regulations 
can lead to fines and penalties.
Risk
Own 
operations
Potential Medium
Waste 
Generation
Damages related to environmental degradation 
(environmental pollution and reduction of ecosystem 
services) due to improper waste management (e.g., 
dispersal or abandonment of waste).
Negative 
impact
Value 
chain
Actual
Short
Sustainability Report
General Disclosures
18
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Material ESG 
topic
IRO name
IRO description
Type 
of IRO
Value 
chain
Potential
/actual
Time 
horizon
S1 Own Workforce
Employee 
Engagement 
and 
Well-being
Risk of lack of 
attractiveness 
and retention 
of employees
When failing to create an appealing work environment, 
companies can experience high turnover rates, leading to 
significant costs related to recruiting, hiring, and training 
new staff. Frequent turnover can result in a loss of 
institutional knowledge and experience, which hinders 
productivity and disrupts team dynamics. Additionally, 
inadequate benefits, limited growth opportunities, 
and a negative workplace culture can lead to decreased 
employee morale and engagement, causing disengaged 
employees to perform at lower levels. 
Risk
Own 
operations
Potential Medium
Risk of non 
compliance with 
working hours 
regulations
Non-compliance with working hours regulations poses 
risks for both employees and organizations. Legal 
penalties, including fines and lawsuits from employees, 
can arise from failing to adhere to labour laws, resulting 
in costly financial repercussions. Additionally, excessive 
workloads and prolonged hours can lead to employee 
burnout, stress, and a decline in overall health, ultimately 
increasing absenteeism and reducing productivity.
Risk
Own 
operations
Potential Medium
Potential 
inadequate 
wages practices
Potential inadequate wage practices can have several 
negative impacts on employees. When wages do not 
reflect the cost of living, employees may experience 
financial stress, which can lead to decreased morale 
and job satisfaction.
Negative 
impact
Own 
operations
Potential Long
Granting 
employees’ 
benefits
Granting employees benefits that promote work-life 
balance presents significant opportunities for both the 
workforce and the organization. By providing flexible 
work hours, remote work options, and additional paid 
time off, organizations can significantly enhance job 
satisfaction which in turns translates to increased 
productivity, as employees experience reduced stress 
and burnout, leading to a more focused and motivated 
workforce. 
Opportunity
Own 
operations
Actual
Short
Sustainability Report
General Disclosures
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
19

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Material ESG 
topic
IRO name
IRO description
Type 
of IRO
Value 
chain
Potential
/actual
Time 
horizon
Social 
Dialogue and 
Freedom of 
Association
Potential lack of 
social dialogue 
measures
Inadequate freedom of association prevents employees 
from forming or joining unions, limiting their ability to 
advocate for their rights and interests. This results in a 
sense of isolation and disempowerment among workers. 
Additionally, the absence of works councils 
and insufficient information, consultation, and 
participation rights means employees are often excluded 
from decision-making processes that affect their working 
conditions, leading to feelings of undervaluation. 
Furthermore, ineffective collective bargaining can leave 
many workers unprotected by collective agreements, 
resulting in unequal treatment regarding wages, benefits, 
and working conditions.
Negative 
impact
Own 
operations
Potential Long
Health 
& Safety
Potential 
exposure 
to various 
workplace 
hazards
Inadequate Health & Safety measures can have a 
negative impact on the workforce, primarily through the 
lack of proper personal protective equipment (PPE) and 
maintenance of tools and equipment, leading to increase 
in the number of workplace injuries. When workers do not 
feel safe and protected, it fosters a negative workplace 
environment which can impact morale and overall job 
satisfaction.
Negative 
impact
Own 
operations
Actual
Short
Talent 
Management 
and Development 
Employees’ 
personal and 
professional 
growth
Investing in employees’ personal and professional growth 
through training and skills development positively 
impacts the workforce by enhancing expertise, improving 
job satisfaction, and increasing overall team effectiveness. 
Continuous learning opportunities empower employees 
to adapt to industry changes, take on new challenges, 
and advance their careers. 
Positive 
impact
Own 
operations
Actual
Short
Diversity 
Equity and 
Inclusion
Efficiencies 
related to 
promoting 
diverse and 
inclusive 
environment
Promoting a diverse and inclusive environment creates 
opportunities for increased efficiency and growth. 
Ensuring gender equality and equal pay, as well as 
employment and inclusion of persons with disabilities, 
expands the talent pool, fosters innovation, and enhances 
employee satisfaction. Prioritizing diversity helps the 
organization better connect with global markets, while 
measures against violence and harassment ensure a safer 
workplace, boosting engagement and reducing risks. 
Overall, these practices lead to higher productivity, better 
decision-making, and stronger financial performance.
Opportunity
Own 
operations
Actual
Short
Employee 
Engagement 
and 
Well-being
Sustainability Report
General Disclosures
20
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Material ESG 
topic
IRO name
IRO description
Type 
of IRO
Value 
chain
Potential
/actual
Time 
horizon
Human 
and Social 
Rights of Own 
Workforce
Potential 
inadequate 
Human Rights 
practices
Inadequate Human Rights practices or lack of processes 
and mechanisms to monitor compliance with the 
Company’s Code of Ethics and Human Rights regulations 
and principles can damage the company’s reputation 
as an employer (making it difficult to attract and retain 
skilled talents) and as a trustworthy business partner 
for both suppliers and clients.
Negative 
impact
Own 
operations
Potential Long
Employee 
Engagement 
and 
Well-being 
Reinforcing of 
employee sense 
of commitment 
and engagement 
through 
employee 
shareholding
Employee shareholding programs strengthen 
commitment and engagement by aligning employees’ 
interests with the company’s performance. This approach 
fosters a sense of ownership and responsibility, leading 
to increased motivation, productivity, and loyalty. 
As shareholders, employees are more invested in the 
company’s success, driving their active participation 
in its growth and sustainability.
Positive 
impact
Own 
operations
Actual
Short
S2 Workers in the Value Chain
Working 
Condition 
and Human 
Rights in the 
Value Chain & 
Equal 
Treatment 
and 
Opportunities 
for all
Inappropriate 
working 
conditions, 
unequal 
treatment and 
Human Rights 
practices for 
business 
partners’ 
employees
Inappropriate working conditions, unequal treatment, 
or lack of Human Rights practices for business partners’ 
employees including inadequate safety measures, 
excessive working hours, and insufficient wages 
jeopardize the health and well-being of workers.
Negative 
impact
Upstream
Actual
Short
Collaborating 
with business 
partners not 
aligned with EL’s 
ethical principles 
and standards
Potential lack of alignment or failure to comply with the 
Group’s ethical principles and standards regarding fair 
working conditions and Human Rights could damage 
the Company’s reputation, success and achievement 
of sustainability commitments and create legal liabilities 
for the Group. Stakeholders, including consumers, 
employees, shareholders and business partners, 
increasingly demand for transparency and accountability 
in supply chains; any association with partners engaging 
in unethical practices can lead to public backlash, 
diminished brand loyalty, and a loss of consumer trust 
while exposing the Group to legal risks and regulatory 
scrutiny.
Risk
Value 
chain
Actual
Short
Sustainability Report
General Disclosures
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
21

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Material ESG 
topic
IRO name
IRO description
Type 
of IRO
Value 
chain
Potential
/actual
Time 
horizon
S3 Affected Communities
Creating 
Awareness for 
Vision Care 
for All
Creating access 
to eyeware and 
eyecare solutions 
for 
disadvantaged 
communities(a)
Creating access to eyewear and eyecare solutions for 
disadvantaged communities by tackling uncorrected poor 
vision in underserved populations, offers a dual 
advantage: improving quality of life (enhanced education, 
socio-economic development, and public health) and 
offer market opportunities (new segments and new 
products, etc.).
Opportunity
Downstream
Actual
Short
Affected 
Communities’ 
Right and 
Engagement
Impact on local 
communities’ 
development 
thanks to 
eyewear 
and eyecare 
programs(a)
Eyecare and eyewear programs enhance the overall 
quality of life, particularly in underserved and vulnerable 
populations. Good vision directly contributes to better 
educational outcomes for students and increased 
productivity for workers, fostering economic growth at the 
local level. Additionally, these initiatives often create job 
opportunities within the communities, both in the delivery 
of eyecare services and the distribution of eyewear 
products.
Positive 
impact
Downstream
Actual
Short
Impactful 
Programs that 
give Vision 
Care Access 
to All
Volunteering 
activities and 
social initiatives(a)
Engagement activities and employee volunteering 
activities through One Sight Foundation, contribute 
to the improvement of economic and social conditions 
of underserved communities at a local level, as well as 
enhance employees’ sense of contribution and 
engagement through their involvement in volunteering 
activities
Positive 
impact
Own 
operations
Actual
Short
S4 Consumers and End-users
Data Privacy
Consumers’ 
personal data 
breaches
Data breaches resulting from inefficient data privacy 
measures expose consumers and stakeholders’ personal 
data to unauthorized third-parties causing for the affected 
persons anxiety, stress and distrust for the company due 
to the loss of control on their personal data.
Negative 
impact
Downstream
Actual
Short
Infringements 
of data privacyrelated 
regulations
Infringements of data privacy-related regulations pose 
reputation and legal risks for organizations and 
individuals. Non-compliance with laws such as the 
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) or similar 
data privacy frameworks can result in severe financial 
penalties, legal liabilities, and potential litigations. 
Beyond financial repercussions, violations of data privacy 
can erode trust with consumers, damaging a company’s 
reputation and leading to a loss of consumer loyalty.
Risk
Downstream
Actual
Short
(a) Entity-specific.
Sustainability Report
General Disclosures
22
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Material ESG 
topic
IRO name
IRO description
Type 
of IRO
Value 
chain
Potential
/actual
Time 
horizon
Product 
Innovation
Innovating 
to respond to 
current and 
new consumers’ 
demand
By developing new products and enhancing existing ones 
to align with consumers’ preferences-whether through 
sustainability, functionality, or design-businesses can 
strengthen consumer’s loyalty, attract new market 
segments, and differentiate themselves in a competitive 
landscape. As new and improved products are 
introduced, demand increases, leading to higher sales 
volumes and new growth opportunities for partners.
Opportunity
Downstream
Actual
Short
Creating 
Awareness for 
Vision Care 
for All
Granting of 
eyewear and 
eyecare access
Granting access to eyewear and eyecare promotes social 
inclusion by enabling individuals to fully participate in 
education, work, and daily life. Improved vision boosts 
learning outcomes, enhances job productivity, and fosters 
independence, reducing inequalities linked to 
uncorrected poor vision.
Positive 
impact
Downstream
Actual
Short
Product 
Safety
Potential Health 
& Safety issues 
for the 
consumers due 
to the use of the 
products
Product defects, inadequate safety standards, and 
harmful materials can affect consumers, leading to 
injuries and health issues. This exposure can lead to 
health concerns, including eye strain and skin damage. 
Furthermore, harmful materials can trigger allergic 
reactions, compromising comfort and well-being
Negative 
impact
Downstream
Potential Medium
Risk of litigations 
and reputational 
damages due to 
product quality 
and safety issues
Incidents related to product quality and safety assurance 
may lead to claims for compensation from consumers, 
and fines from authorities, as well as negatively impact 
brands reputation, resulting in financial losses
Risk
Downstream
Potential Long
Relationship 
with 
Consumers
Enhanced 
consumer’s 
loyalty
Consumer’s access to quality information disclosed by 
the Group may enhance their trust and loyalty, positively 
impacting brand perception, and leading to higher 
financial returns
Opportu
nity
Downstream
Actual
Short
Transparent 
Communication and 
Reporting
Risk of noncompliance with 
upcoming 
greenwashing 
regulations
As governments and authorities are narrowing the 
attention on greenwashing and non-compliance with 
emerging sustainability and transparency regulations 
could have negative repercussions on the business, 
in terms of legal fines and negative financial returns, 
due to reduction of consumer trust and Company’s 
lower credibility
Risk
Downstream
Potential Medium
Sustainability Report
General Disclosures
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
23

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Material ESG 
topic
IRO name
IRO description
Type 
of IRO
Value 
chain
Potential
/actual
Time 
horizon
G1 Business conduct
Business 
Ethics and 
Integrity
Possible 
decrease of trust 
from business 
partners and 
employees
Engagement in unethical business practices, violations 
of whistleblower protection, and unfair treatment of 
suppliers could significantly erode trust among business 
partners and employees. The lack of commitment to 
ethical standards may lead to scepticism among business 
partners, who may question the company’s reliability and 
commitment to sustainability. 
Negative 
impact
Value 
chain
Potential Long
Responsible 
Sourcing 
Practices
Business 
Ethics and 
Integrity
Risk of unethical 
business 
practices
Engagement in unethical business practices, violation 
of whistleblowers protection, or unfair behaviour with 
suppliers may expose the Company and it’s value chain 
to legal fines, reputational damage, and financial harm, as 
well as undermine the company’s long-term sustainability 
and market position.
Risk
Value 
chain
Potential Long
Responsible 
Sourcing 
Practices
Corruption 
and Bribery
Risk of 
ineffective 
policies related 
to anti-bribery 
and corruption
Ineffective Company’s policies and procedures to 
prevent bribery and corruption may lead to legal 
penalties, reputational damage, and financial losses, 
if the Group, its employees or its key actors in the value 
chain are involved in unethical practices, or fail to comply 
with local and international regulations on anti-corruption. 
Moreover, ineffective policies could also undermine 
stakeholder trust and damage long-term business 
sustainability
Risk
Value 
chain
Potential Long
Potential unfair 
advantage 
compared to 
competitors
Gaining a competitive edge through unfair means, such 
as bribing officials or manipulating business practices, 
could distort market competition, negatively impacting 
competitors along the entire value chain who operate 
ethically, in terms of business opportunities and financial 
returns 
Negative 
impact
Value 
chain
Potential Long
Sustainability Report
General Disclosures
24
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

1.4.1.7
Additional information on EssilorLuxottica’s double materiality approach
Stakeholder engagement is a crucial component of the double materiality assessment process. By actively involving a diverse range of 
stakeholders, both internal and external, it is ensured that decisions are well-informed and reflective of the broader community’s 
needs and expectations. Engaging with stakeholders helped to identify key impacts, risks, and opportunities that might not be 
apparent through internal analysis alone.
Below are summary tables (Table 2 and Table 3) listing the categories of stakeholders which have been engaged:
Table 2
Internal stakeholder functions
Board of Directors
Corporate Sustainability
Human Resources
Operations
Risk Management
Communication
Investors Relations
Finance
Compliance
Legal
EHS
Internal Audit
M&A and Corporate Development
Marketing & Sales
Supply Chain
R&D
IT
Product Development and Quality
Procurement
Mission
Retail
Table 3
External stakeholder functions
Academia
Clients/Customers
Doctors
Investors
Rating Agencies
Licensors
Media
Suppliers
NGOs
Research Institutions
Business Partners
Nature
Sustainability Report
General Disclosures
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
25

--- PAGE BREAK ---

1.4.2
Disclosure Requirements in ESRS Covered by EssilorLuxottica’s Sustainability 
Statement
Appendix B
ESRS 2 GOV-1
Board’s gender diversity, paragraph 21 (d)
1.2.1 The Role of the Administrative, 
Management and Supervisory Bodies p. 5
ESRS 2 GOV-1
Percentage of board members who are independent, 
paragraph 21 (e)
1.2.1 The Role of the Administrative, 
Management and Supervisory Bodies p. 5
ESRS 2 GOV-4
Statement on due diligence, paragraph 30
1.2.4 Statement on Due Diligence p. 8
ESRS 2 SBM-1
Involvement in activities related to fossil fuel activities, 
paragraph 40 (d) i
Not relevant for the Group
ESRS 2 SBM-1
Involvement in activities related to chemical production, 
paragraph 40 (d) ii
Not relevant for the Group
ESRS 2 SBM-1
Involvement in activities related to controversial weapons, 
paragraph 40 (d) iii
Not relevant for the Group
ESRS 2 SBM-1
Involvement in activities related to cultivation and production 
of tobacco, paragraph 40 (d) iv
Not relevant for the Group
ESRS E1-1
Transition plan to reach climate neutrality by 2050, paragraph 14
2.1.3 Transition Plan for Climate Change 
Mitigation p. 36
ESRS E1-1
Undertakings excluded from Paris-aligned Benchmarks, 
paragraph 16 (g)
Not relevant for the Group
ESRS E1-4
GHG emission reduction targets, paragraph 34
2.1.6 Targets p. 41
ESRS E1-5
Energy consumption from fossil sources disaggregated by 
sources (only high climate impact sectors), paragraph 38
2.1.7 Energy Consumption and Mix p. 43
ESRS E1-5 Energy consumption and mix, paragraph 37
2.1.7 Energy Consumption and Mix p. 43
ESRS E1-5
Energy intensity associated with activities in high climate impact 
sectors, paragraphs 40 to 43
2.1.7 Energy Consumption and Mix p. 44
ESRS E1-6
Gross Scopes 1, 2, 3 and Total GHG emissions, paragraph 44
2.1.8 Total GHG Emissions (Scopes 1, 2 and 3) 
p. 44
ESRS E1-6
Gross GHG emissions intensity, paragraphs 53 to 55
2.1.8 Total GHG Emissions (Scopes 1, 2 and 3) 
p. 46
ESRS E1-7
GHG removals and carbon credits, paragraph 56
2.1.9 GHG Removals and GHG Mitigation 
Projects Financed Through Carbon Credits 
p. 46
Disclosure requirement and related datapoint 
Section and page number 
Materiality
Sustainability Report
General Disclosures
26
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

ESRS E1-9
Exposure of the benchmark portfolio to climate-related physical 
risks, paragraph 66
Phased-in
ESRS E1-9
Disaggregation of monetary amounts by acute and chronic 
physical risk, paragraph 66 (a)
Phased-in
ESRS E1-9
Location of significant assets at material physical risk, 
paragraph 66 (c).
Phased-in
ESRS E1-9 
Breakdown of the carrying value of its real estate assets 
by energy-efficiency classes, paragraph 67 (c).
Phased-in
ESRS E1-9
Degree of exposure of the portfolio to climate- related 
opportunities, paragraph 69
Phased-in
ESRS E2-4
Amount of each pollutant listed in Annex II of the E-PRTR 
Regulation (European Pollutant Release and Transfer Register) 
emitted to air, water and soil, paragraph 28
1.1.1 General Basis for Preparation 
of Sustainability Statements p. 4
ESRS E3-1
Water and marine resources, paragraph 9
2.3.3 Policies p. 51
ESRS E3-1
Dedicated policy, paragraph 13
Not relevant for the Group
ESRS E3-1
Sustainable oceans and seas, paragraph 14
Not relevant for the Group
ESRS E3-4
Total water recycled and reused, paragraph 28 (c)
1.1.1 General Basis for Preparation 
of Sustainability Statements p. 4
ESRS E3-4
Total water consumption in m3 per net revenue on own 
operations, paragraph 29
2.3.5 Targets and Metrics p. 53
ESRS 2- SBM 3 – E4, paragraph 16 (a) i
Not material
ESRS 2- SBM 3 – E4, paragraph 16 (b)
Not material
ESRS 2- SBM 3 – E4, paragraph 16 (c)
Not material
ESRS E4-2
Sustainable land/agriculture practices or policies, 
paragraph 24 (b)
Not material
ESRS E4-2
Sustainable oceans/seas practices or policies, paragraph 24 (c)
Not material
ESRS E4-2
Policies to address deforestation, paragraph 24 (d)
Not material
ESRS E5-5
Non-recycled waste, paragraph 37 (d)
2.4.6 Targets and Metrics p. 61
ESRS E5-5
Hazardous waste and radioactive waste, paragraph 39
2.4.6 Targets and Metrics p. 61
Disclosure requirement and related datapoint 
Section and page number 
Materiality
Sustainability Report
General Disclosures
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
27

--- PAGE BREAK ---

ESRS 2- SBM3 – S1
Risk of incidents of forced labour, paragraph 14 (f)
3.1.6.3 Policies p. 105
ESRS 2- SBM3 – S1
Risk of incidents of child labour, paragraph 14 (g)
3.1.6.3 Policies p. 105
ESRS S1-1
Human rights policy commitments, paragraph 20
3.1.6.3 Policies p. 105
ESRS S1-1
Due diligence policies on issues addressed by the fundamental 
International Labor Organisation Conventions 1 to 8, 
paragraph 21
3.1.6.3 Policies p. 105
ESRS S1-1
Processes and measures for preventing trafficking in human 
beings, paragraph 22
3.1.6.3 Policies p. 105 
ESRS S1-1
Workplace accident prevention policy or management system, 
paragraph 23
3.1.3.5 Preventing and managing 
Health & Safety risks to people p. 86
ESRS S1-3
Grievance/complaint handling mechanisms, paragraph 32 (c)
3.1.6.5 Processes to remediate negative 
impacts and channels for own workforce 
to raise concerns p. 106
ESRS S1-14
Number of fatalities and number and rate of work-related 
accidents, paragraph 88 (b) and (c)
3.1.3.7 Targets and metrics p. 89
ESRS S1-14
Number of days lost to injuries, accidents, fatalities or illness, 
paragraph 88 (e)
3.1.3.7 Targets and metrics p. 89
ESRS S1-16
Unadjusted gender pay gap, paragraph 97 (a)
3.1.2.6 Actions and resources p. 82
ESRS S1-16
Excessive CEO pay ratio, paragraph 97 (b)
4.3.3 AFEP-MEDEF Compensation 
and Benefits Tables (see page 185 of the 2024 
Universal Registration Document).
ESRS S1-17
Incidents of discrimination, paragraph 103 (a)
3.1.6.7 Metrics and targets p. 109
ESRS S1-17 Non-respect of UNGPs on business and Human 
Rights and OECD Guidelines, paragraph 104 (a)
3.1.6.7 Metrics and targets p. 109
ESRS 2- SBM3 – S2 Significant risk of child labour or forced 
labour in the value chain, paragraph 11 (b)
3.2.2 Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities 
p. 110
ESRS S2-1
Human rights policy commitments, paragraph 17
3.2.3 Policies and Engagement p. 111
Disclosure requirement and related datapoint 
Section and page number 
Materiality
Sustainability Report
General Disclosures
28
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

ESRS S2-1 
Policies related to value chain workers paragraph 18
3.2.3 Policies and Engagement  p. 111
ESRS S2-1 
Non-respect of UNGPs on business and Human Rights principles 
and OECD guidelines, paragraph 19
3.2.3 Policies and Engagement p. 113
ESRS S2-1
Due diligence policies on issues addressed by the fundamental 
International Labor Organisation Conventions 1 to 8, 
paragraph 19
3.2.3 Policies and Engagement  p. 111
ESRS S2-4
Human rights issues and incidents connected to its upstream 
and downstream value chain, paragraph 36
3.2.4 Actions and Resources p. 114
ESRS S3-1
Human rights policy commitments, paragraph 16
Not material
ESRS S3-1
Non-respect of UNGPs on business and Human Rights, 
ILO principles or OECD guidelines, paragraph 17
Not material
ESRS S3-4
Human rights issues and incidents, paragraph 36
Not material
ESRS S4-1 Policies related to consumers and end-users, 
paragraph 16
3.4.2.3 Policies p. 121; 3.4.3.3 Policies p. 126; 
3.4.4.3 Policies p. 131
ESRS S4-1
Non-respect of UNGPs on business and Human Rights 
and OECD guidelines, paragraph 17
3.4.2.3 Policies p. 121; 3.4.3.3 Policies p. 126
ESRS S4-4
Human Rights issues and incidents, paragraph 35
To the best knowledge of EssilorLuxottica, 
there were no issues and incidents regarding 
Human Rights and consumers/end-users
ESRS G1-1
United Nations Convention against Corruption, paragraph 10 (b)
Not applicable as the Group has 
an Anti-bribery and corruption policy
ESRS G1-1
Protection of whistle- blowers, paragraph 10 (d)
Not applicable as EssilorLuxottica is subject 
to legal requirements with regard to protection 
of whistleblowers, in accordance with the 
applicable laws transposing Directive EU 
2019/1937 and other applicable laws.
ESRS G1-4
Fines for violation of anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws, 
paragraph 24 (a)
To the best knowledge of EssilorLuxottica, 
there were no convictions or fines for violation 
of anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws in 2024, 
as stated in Section 4.1.6 Targets and metrics 
p. 141
ESRS G1-4
Standards of anti- corruption and anti- bribery, paragraph 24 (b)
4.1.5 Actions, Resources and Procedures p. 138 
Disclosure requirement and related datapoint 
Section and page number 
Materiality
Sustainability Report
General Disclosures
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
29

--- PAGE BREAK ---

ESRS 2
General 
requirements
BP-1
1.1.1 General Basis for Preparation of Sustainability Statements p. 3
BP-2
1.1.2 Disclosures in Relation to Specific Circumstances p. 5
GOV-1
1.2.1 The Role of the Administrative, Management and Supervisory 
Bodies p. 5
GOV-2
1.2.2 Information Provided to and Sustainability Matters Addressed by 
EssilorLuxottica’s Administrative, Management and Supervisory 
Bodies p. 7
GOV-3
1.2.3 Integration of Sustainability-Related Performance in Incentive 
Schemes p. 7
GOV-4
1.2.4 Statement on Due Diligence p. 8
GOV-5
1.2.5 Risk Management and Internal Controls Over Sustainability 
Reporting p. 8
SBM-1
1.3.1 Strategy, Business Model and Value Chain p. 8
SBM-2
1.3.2 Interests and Views of Stakeholders p. 11
SBM-3
1.4.1 Description of the Processes to Identify and Assess Material 
Impacts, Risks and Opportunities – EssilorLuxottica Double Materiality 
Assessment p. 13
IRO-1
1.4.1 Description of the Processes to Identify and Assess Material 
Impacts, Risks and Opportunities – EssilorLuxottica Double Materiality 
Assessment p. 13
IRO-2
1.4.2 Disclosure Requirements in ESRS Covered by EssilorLuxottica’s 
Sustainability Statement p. 26
ESRS E1
Climate change
GOV-3
1.2.3 Integration of Sustainability-Related Performance in Incentive 
Schemes p. 7
SBM-3
2.1.2 Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities p. 34
IRO-1
2.1.2 Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities p. 34
E1-1
2.1.3 Transition Plan for Climate Change Mitigation p. 36
E1-2
2.1.4 Policies p. 37
E1-3
2.1.5 Actions and Resources p. 38
E1-4
2.1.6 Targets p. 41
E1-5
2.1.7 Energy Consumption and Mix p. 43
E1-6
2.1.8 Total GHG Emissions (Scopes 1, 2 and 3) p. 44
E1-7
2.1.9 GHG Removals and GHG Mitigation Projects Financed Through 
Carbon Credits p. 46
E1-8
2.1.10 Internal Carbon Pricing p. 46
E1-9
Phase-in
ESRS
Topic
Data requirement
Section and page number
Sustainability Report
General Disclosures
30
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

ESRS E2
Pollution
IRO-1
1.4.1 Description of the Processes to Identify and Assess Material 
Impacts, Risks and Opportunities – EssilorLuxottica Double Materiality 
Assessment p. 13
E2-1
2.2.3 Policies p. 48
E2-2
2.2.4 Actions and Resources p. 49
E2-3
2.2.5 Targets and Metrics p. 50
E2-4
1.1.1 General Basis for Preparation of Sustainability Statements p. 4
E2-5
1.1.1 General Basis for Preparation of Sustainability Statements p. 4
E2-6
Phase-in
ESRS E3
Water and marine 
resources
IRO-1
1.4.1 Description of the Processes to Identify and Assess Material 
Impacts, Risks and Opportunities – EssilorLuxottica Double Materiality 
Assessment p. 13
E3-1
2.3.3 Policies p. 51
E3-2
2.3.4 Actions and Resources p. 52
E3-3
2.3.5 Targets and Metrics p. 53
E3-4
2.3.5 Targets and Metrics p. 53
E3-5
Phase-in
ESRS E4
Biodiversity 
and ecosystems
Not material
ESRS E5
Circular economy
IRO-1
1.4.1 Description of the Processes to Identify and Assess Material 
Impacts, Risks and Opportunities – EssilorLuxottica Double Materiality 
Assessment p. 13
E5-1
2.4.3 Policies p. 55
E5-2
2.4.5 Actions and Resources p. 57
E5-3
2.4.6 Targets and Metrics p. 61
E5-4
2.4.4 Key Products and Materials p. 56
E5-5
2.4.5 Actions and Resources p. 57
E5-6
Phase-in
ESRS
Topic
Data requirement
Section and page number
Sustainability Report
General Disclosures
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
31

--- PAGE BREAK ---

ESRS S1
Own workforce
SBM-2
1.3.2 Interests and Views of Stakeholders p. 11
SBM-3
3.2.2 Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities p. 75
S1-1
3.1.2.3 Policies p. 78; 3.1.3.3 Policies p. 85; 3.1.4.3 Policies p. 90; 
3.1.4.11 Policies p. 94; 3.1.5.3 Policies and processes p. 99; 3.1.6.3 
Policies p. 105
S1-2
3.1.2.4 Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ 
representatives p. 79; 3.1.3.4 Engaging with own workers 
on Health & Safety p. 86; 3.1.4.4 Processes for engaging with own 
workers and workers’ representatives p. 90; 3.1.4.12 Processes for 
engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives p. 95; 3.1.5.3 
Policies and processes p. 99; 3.1.6.4 Processes for engaging with own 
workers and workers’ representatives p. 106
S1-3
3.1.2.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own 
workers to raise concerns p. 80; 3.1.3.5 Preventing and managing 
Health & Safety risks to people p. 86; 3.1.4.5 Processes to remediate 
negative impacts and channels for own workers to raise concerns 
p. 91; 3.1.6.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels 
for own workforce to raise concerns p. 106
S1-4
3.1.2.6 Actions and resources p. 80; 3.1.3.6 Actions and resources 
p. 87; 3.1.4.6 Actions and resources p. 91 3.1.4.13 Actions and 
resources p. 95; 3.1.5.4 Actions and resources p. 101; 3.1.6.6 Actions 
and resources p. 108
S1-5
3.1.2.7 Targets and metrics p. 83; 3.1.3.7 Targets and metrics p. 88; 
3.1.4.7 Targets and metrics p. 91; 3.1.4.14 Targets and metrics p. 98; 
3.1.5.5 Targets and metrics p. 103; 3.1.6.7 Metrics and targets p. 109
S1-6
3.1.1 Introduction p. 72
S1-7
3.1.1 Introduction p. 72
S1-8
3.1.4.7 Targets and metrics p. 92
S1-9
3.1.5.5 Targets and metrics p. 103
S1-10
3.1.2.6 Actions and resources p. 81
S1-11
Phase-in
S1-12
Phase-in
S1-13
Phase-in
S1-14
3.1.3.7 Targets and metrics p. 88
S1-15
Phase-in
S1-16
3.1.2.6 Actions and resources p. 82
S1-17
3.1.3.7 Targets and metrics p. 88; 3.1.6.7 Metrics and targets p. 109
ESRS S2
Workers in the 
value chain
SBM-2
1.3.2 Interests and Views of Stakeholders p. 11
SBM-3
3.2.2 Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities p. 110
S2-1
3.2.3 Policies and Engagement p. 111
S2-2
3.2.3 Policies and Engagement p. 113
S2-3
3.2.3 Policies and Engagement p. 113
S2-4
3.2.4 Actions and Resources p. 114
S2-5
3.2.5 Targets p. 115
ESRS S3
Affected 
communities
SBM-2
1.3.2 Interests and Views of Stakeholders p. 11
SBM-3
1.4.1 Description of the Processes to Identify and Assess Material 
Impacts, Risks and Opportunities – EssilorLuxottica Double Materiality 
Assessment p. 13
S3-1
3.3.4 Strategy and Policies p. 117
S3-2
3.3.4 Strategy and Policies p. 117
S3-3
3.3.4 Strategy and Policies p. 117
S3-4
3.3.5 Actions and Resources p. 118
S3-5
3.3.6 Targets and Metrics p. 120
ESRS
Topic
Data requirement
Section and page number
Sustainability Report
General Disclosures
32
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

ESRS S4
Consumers and 
end-users
SBM-2
1.3.2 Interests and Views of Stakeholders p. 11
SBM-3
1.4.1 Description of the Processes to Identify and Assess Material 
Impacts, Risks and Opportunities – EssilorLuxottica Double Materiality 
Assessment p. 13
S4-1
3.4.2.3 Policies p. 121; 3.4.3.3 Policies p. 126; 3.4.4.3 Policies p. 131
S4-2
3.4.2.4 Processes for engaging with consumers p. 121; 3.4.3.4 
Processes for engaging with consumers p. 126; 3.4.4.3 Policies p. 131
S4-3
3.4.2.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels 
for consumers to raise concerns p. 121; 3.4.3.5 Processes to remediate 
negative impacts and channels for consumers to raise concerns p. 128; 
3.4.4.3 Policies p. 131
S4-4
3.4.2.6 Actions and resources p. 122; 3.4.3.6 Actions and resources 
p. 129; 3.4.4.4 Actions and resources p. 132
S4-5
3.4.2.7 Targets p. 124; 3.4.3.7 Targets p. 130; 3.4.4.5 Targets p. 132
ESRS G1
Business conduct
GOV-1
1.2.1 The Role of the Administrative, Management and Supervisory 
Bodies p. 5
IRO-1
1.4.1 Description of the Processes to Identify and Assess Material 
Impacts, Risks and Opportunities – EssilorLuxottica Double Materiality 
Assessment p. 13
G1-1
4.1.3 Policies p. 134
G1-2
4.1.5.5 Management of relationships with suppliers p. 141
G1-3
4.1.5.3 Prevention and detection of bribery and corruption p. 140 and 
4.1.5.4 Training on business conduct and anti-corruption p. 140
G1-4
4.1.6 Targets and Metrics p. 141
G1-5
Not material
G1-6
4.1.5.5 Management of relationships with suppliers p. 141
ESRS
Topic
Data requirement
Section and page number
Sustainability Report
General Disclosures
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
33

--- PAGE BREAK ---

2
Environmental Information
2.1
ESRS E1 – Climate Change
2.1.1
Introduction
With the launch of the Eyes on the Planet sustainability program 
in July  2021, EssilorLuxottica committed to addressing 
sustainability at every stage of its value chain, starting from its 
vertically integrated business model. 
In this respect, the Company aims to act as an example in the 
industry on the transition toward a low-carbon economy and 
climate-resilient business models. Through the Eyes on Carbon 
pillar of its sustainability program, the Group is contributing to 
the global agenda of tackling climate change.
This section provides an overview of policies, actions, metrics and, 
when available, targets to prevent, mitigate and remediate actual 
and potential material impacts, to address material risks and/or to 
pursue material opportunities related to climate change.
2.1.2
Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities
Material 
ESG Topic
IRO name
IRO description
Policy
Target/Metric
Climate 
Resilience
Adverse social impacts 
due to the disruption in 
operations caused by 
extreme climate events
Extreme climate events such as hurricanes, floods 
or droughts can ultimately lead to significant social 
impacts including job losses and reduced working 
hours, economic strain on affected communities, 
social unrest or dissatisfaction due to prolonged 
services outages or production delays. 
•
EHS Policy
•
Climate 
Transition Plan
•
Business 
Partners’ Code 
of Conduct
•
42% absolute 
reduction of 
Scopes 1&2 
GHG 
emissions 
by 2030 from a 
2022 base year
•
25% absolute 
reduction of 
selected 
Scope 3 GHG 
emissions 
categories by 
2030, from a 
2022 base year
Disruption of activities 
due to extreme climate 
events (e.g., hurricane, 
floods, etc.)
Increase in extreme weather events (e.g., cyclones, 
droughts, floods, etc.) due to climate change 
impact business continuity in terms of operational 
disruptions, supply chain interruptions and store 
closures causing capacity to be downgraded and 
operations to be temporarily stopped or shut 
down completely.
Climate 
Transition
Risks associated with 
transitioning to a lowercarbon economy (policy, 
legal, technology, and 
market changes)
Transitioning to a lower-carbon economy could 
imply the issuance of country-specific carbon 
regulatory policies or carbon taxes or stricter 
environmental regulations. Compliance with these 
regulations would involve the adoption of new, 
low-carbon technologies, which may require 
significant investment, pose operational 
challenges and increase production costs (e.g., 
raw materials, energy and transportation). At the 
same time, consumers’ demand for responsible 
products and services may lead to adjustments 
in product design and manufacturing and retail 
services.
Energy consumption 
and GHG emissions 
The threats of high energy consumption and GHG 
emissions to climate change may translate into 
more extreme weather events, rising sea levels, 
and disruptions to ecosystems, thereby impacting 
biodiversity and natural resources, and the 
broader environment and society. 
Following both the CSRD requirements and the recommendations of the TCFD framework (Task Force on Climate Related Financial 
Disclosures), two categories of climate-related risks – risks related to the physical impacts of climate change and risks related to the 
transition to a lower-carbon economy – are considered to prepare the Company for potential operational, financial and reputational 
effects, and to build the climate resilience of its activities.
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
34
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Identification and management of physical 
climate risks
Since 2021, EssilorLuxottica has been performing physical 
climate risk assessments to gain a better understanding of the 
Group’s climate-related risks. The Group updated and 
expanded the scope of its physical climate risk assessment in 
late 2022, covering the Group’s full activities, including 
manufacturing and logistics facilities, offices and directly 
managed stores. In total, 616 Group’s assets, based on their 
insured value, (including 84 stores representative of the 
footprint) have been analysed. A climate risk platform provided 
by an external company has been used leveraging on the GPS 
points or addresses of these assets. This climate risk model was 
built based on four chronic climate hazards (heat stress, sea 
level rise, precipitation and drought) and three acute climate 
hazards (tropical cyclones, extreme flooding and fire weather) 
over the mid-term (2030) and long-term (2050 and 2100). The 
other climate –related risks were not considered relevant due to 
the Group’s activities and locations. The model takes into 
consideration 
three 
‘Representative 
Concentration 
Pathways’ (RCP) scenarios developed by the Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), an internationally recognized 
body of the United Nations.
•
RCP 2.6 (>+1.5°C by 2100) – consistent with the Paris 
Agreement, in which energy transition is considered in 
accordance with the ambitious mitigation goals;
•
RCP 4.5 (+2-3°C by 2100) – a specific scenario with limited 
action in which temperature increase estimates are 
considered with current global policies announced; 
•
RCP 8.5 (>+4°C by 2100) – considers the worst-case climate 
scenario, in which no specific climate-change mitigation 
measures are implemented. 
A dedicated risk scale, from 1 (lowest) to 5 (highest) has been 
clearly defined for each climate-related risk (e.g., number of 
days in heatwave, or drought duration per year) to clearly 
identify the potential gross risks (i.e., the inherent risk before 
any mitigation measure is implemented) for the Group’s 
analysed assets. This updated climate risk model helps the 
Group screen the physical climate risk exposure of a specific site 
based on its location, anticipate and prepare for potential 
climate hazards, raise awareness and protect employees in 
urgent situations and improve the resilience of its assets and 
supply chain. 
According to this model, the main gross climate-related risks for 
the Group would be precipitation, heat stress and extreme 
flooding in countries such as China, Thailand, United Sates, and 
the Philippines. Finally, the model can support management 
decisions when evaluating a new building project or when 
acquiring a new company.
In addition, the resilience against major threats is verified and 
strengthened following a site visit by the Property and Asset 
insurer, as part of the loss prevention and business continuity 
approach of the Group to ensure business continuity. For 
example, for flooding risk, mitigation measures usually involve 
the implementation of a flood emergency response plan that 
may also include the installation of barriers to avoid penetration 
of the water inside the buildings. 
Besides, all the processes implemented as part of the ISO 14001 
and/or ISO 50001 and/or ISO 45001 are also used as mitigation 
measures and for the safety of employees (see Sections  2.1.5 
Actions and Resources and 3.1.3.6 Actions and resources).
Finally, 
the 
geographical 
footprint 
of 
EssilorLuxottica’s 
manufacturing and logistics facilities, distribution networks and 
human capital is well balanced and diversified across more than 
150 countries where the Company operates and represents a 
real shield against unexpected events, including extreme 
climate ones.
Regarding the value chain, a specific in-depth analysis will be 
devoted to the topic in due course.
Identification and management 
of transition climate risks 
The Company may be exposed to extensive policy and 
regulation changes, technology limits, market shifts or 
reputational risks throughout the global transition toward a 
lower-carbon economy. 
In addition to the double materiality analysis, a dedicated first 
analysis has been performed in 2024 on transition risks, using 
the Net Zero emissions by 2050 scenario (consistent with 
limiting the global temperature rise to 1.5  °C) to stress-test 
business resilience and the Network for Greening the Financial 
System (NGFS) data for 2027 (short term) and 2030 (medium 
term) climate scenarios. The scenario requires that all 
stakeholders, governments, businesses, investors and citizens 
take action and it details the key milestones to transform the 
world to an economy powered predominantly by renewable 
energy sources rather than fossil fuels. Some of the assumptions 
in the IEA NZE scenario(1) are reported below:
•
economic: 
•
carbon 
price 
for 
electricity, 
industry 
and 
energy 
production,
•
electricity as the new focus of the global energy system,
•
lower share of oil/coal;
•
technology:
•
increases in the price of raw materials to make clean 
energy technologies,
•
renewables and nuclear energy dominating the growth of 
global electricity supply.
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
35
(1) 
Assumptions from International Energy Agency, NetZero by 2050 scenario.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The main gross risks identified are:
•
policy and Legal:
•
pricing of GHG emissions including Scope  3 emissions 
due to regulatory pressures or the emergence of new 
stringent climate regulation – e.g., carbon pricing 
intensification,
•
increasing focus on circular economy and waste 
management (especially regarding plastics);
•
technology:
•
costs to transition to lower emission technology;
•
market risks:
•
sustainable sourcing of key materials (e.g., instability of 
supply and demand). 
These risks might lead to the inability for EssilorLuxottica to 
achieve its climate commitment or adapt its business model. 
Moreover, delays in delivering its climate roadmap may be 
caused by a lack of proper organization, expertise and 
resources, further impacting the Group reputation and its 
external perception. However, no assets and business activities 
that are incompatible with or need significant efforts to be 
compatible with a transition to a climate-neutral economy have 
been identified.
As described in the following sections, the Group has massively 
invested in renewable energy deployment (see Section  2.1.5 
Actions and Resources), and new facilities are built following 
high energy performance standards and low fossil fuel 
dependence. And, the SBTi trajectory will make it possible to 
significantly decrease the impact of its own operations, while 
engaging its key suppliers in this journey. 
The deployment of the Company’s climate initiatives is reflected 
in the Group’s operating expenses and investments accounted 
for during the course of the year as well as in the medium-term 
projections used to perform 2024 annual impairment tests (see 
Note 10.1 Impairment Tests in Chapter 5 of the 2024 Universal 
Registration Document) and in the 2025 budget preparation. No 
other climate-related material impacts were reflected in the 
2024 financial statements.
2.1.3
Transition Plan for Climate 
Change Mitigation
As a key milestone in its long-term goal to address climate 
change, in 2024, EssilorLuxottica has set its first science-based 
emission reduction targets covering its entire value chain, 
defined following the 2022 Carbon Footprint Assessment of the 
Group, and that are in line with the Paris Agreement goals. 
The Group’s targets, validated in November  2024 by the 
Science-Based Targets Initiative (SBTi), aim to:
•
reach a 42% absolute reduction of Scopes  1&2 GHG 
emissions by 2030 from a 2022 baseline, in line with nearterm criteria for targets on the ‘1.5 degrees’ path;
•
reach a 25% absolute reduction of Scope 3 GHG emissions 
on the identified categories (purchased goods and services – 
not including Equipment, Instruments and Wearables 
sub-categories, fuel- and energy-related activities, upstream 
transportation and distribution and waste generated in 
operations) by 2030, from a 2022 baseline, in line with 
near-term criteria for targets on the ‘well-below 2 degrees’ 
path.
The target set on Scopes  1 and 2 covers 100% of the GHG 
emissions and the one set on Scope 3 covers more than 70% of 
the total Scope  3 GHG emissions on the 2022 baseline. 2022 
represents the base year as it is the first year of fully available 
consolidated data after the combination of Essilor and Luxottica 
and the acquisition of GrandVision and as such, 2022 is 
representative in terms of the activities covered.
These targets and associated decarbonisation levers have been 
defined internally through a cross-functional task force including 
the EHS, Procurement, Logistics, Supply Chain, Product and 
Operations Sustainability and Corporate Sustainability functions. 
More information on targets is presented in Section  2.1.6 
Targets
In order to reach the above-mentioned targets, carbon 
reduction priorities have been identified:
•
product evolution:
•
increasing the use of renewable energy – As part of the 
Group’s efforts to minimize its own emissions (Scope  1 
and Scope  2), actions on renewable energy have been 
largely accelerated with more investment in self-produced 
via a dedicated roadmap or externally produced (through 
Power Purchase Agreement) renewable energy via a 
formalized renewable energy purchasing roadmap,
•
operations efficiencies – Priority of the Group is given in 
decreasing the use of resources (raw materials, energy 
and water consumption, waste generation) through 
continuing process optimization and innovation as well as 
footprint consolidation with increased efficiency;
•
supply chain optimization through near shoring and network 
optimization (e.g., part of production relocated to be closer 
to the market demand, consolidation of Rx labs, completepair offerings, etc.);
•
logistics optimization – Projects span from modal shift (shifts 
in transportation mode) to the optimization of all shipments 
preparation, to the redesign of the Group supply chain 
(nearshoring/reshoring) while constantly monitoring all 
logistics flows and network optimization activities;
•
upstream improvement and others initiatives – Significant 
emission reductions will also be achieved with the 
involvement of the direct suppliers in the reduction of their 
own emissions. Employees and customers are encouraged to 
take part in sustainability training and awareness initiatives 
available via a comprehensive online learning path on 
Leonardo, the Group’s digital learning platform.
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
36
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

To know more about the above-mentioned levers refer to 
Section  2.1.5 Actions and Resources (e.g., actions and 
associated OpEx and CapEx). Regarding Taxonomy (please 
refer to Section 2.5 EU Taxonomy Disclosure), the Company is 
committed to continuously improving its alignment with the 
standards and will actively work toward integrating more 
projects and initiatives into alignment frameworks in the future.
EssilorLuxottica’s Climate Transition Plan, acknowledged by the 
Board, is integrated into the Company’s strategy and supports 
business resilience. The plan implementation leads to Groupwide interventions that facilitate the achievement of its 2030 
carbon emission reduction targets. These include both 
efficiency programs that generate reductions, investment 
evaluation and planning.  Sustainability-related capital and 
operating expenditures are part of EssilorLuxottica’s annual 
financial planning process, focusing on the most strategic and 
priority ones, including self-produced renewable energy, 
renewable energy purchasing, improvement of the technical 
equipment, and investments in R&D (research of new innovative 
materials, eco-design with LCAs, developing internal recycling 
processes and upcycling products enhancing end-of-life, etc.). 
The progress against the Company’s science-based targets is 
closely monitored by a dedicated cross-functional task force 
that meets on a weekly basis (see Section  2.1.8 Total GHG 
Emissions (Scopes 1, 2 and 3) of this Chapter).
In this respect, it is worth mentioning that these emissions 
reduction targets are not jeopardized by locked-in GHG 
emissions, as the Group does not manufacture GHG-intensive 
and energy-intensive products. In fact, the GHG emissions 
associated with the ‘use of sold products’ represent around 2% 
of the total GHG emissions of the Group. Moreover, regarding 
the assets owned by the Company:
•
for existing facilities, the Group uses gas for heating and 
diesel fuel for generators in case of electricity shot-down and 
for a part of its company cars as well as petrol. Machineries 
and equipment to manufacture the products run mostly on 
electricity. Old equipment or installations are progressively 
replaced with more efficient technologies in order to limit 
the energy consumption and associated GHG emissions; 
•
regarding new facilities, they are built following high energy 
performance standards and low fossil fuel dependence. 
2.1.4
Policies
Document
Main content
Function
Scope
Availability
Environment 
Health & Safety 
Policy
It articulates EssilorLuxottica’s commitment to minimize all 
environmental, Health & Safety impacts resulting from its 
operations, products and services. With reference to 
minimizing environmental impacts, attention is on reducing 
GHG emissions (via energy efficiency improvements and, 
where sustainable, usage of renewable energy) and on the 
improvement of Energy, Environment and Health & Safety 
management systems according to international standards 
and internal procedures.
EHS
Own operations
Public 
Climate 
Transition Plan
The document presents EssilorLuxottica’s 1.5°C-aligned 
climate transition plan. The main contents are:
•
emissions reduction targets set as per SBTi 
requirements;
•
climate change mitigation and adaptation;
•
energy efficiency;
•
renewable energy deployment;
•
suppliers’ engagement and the engagement 
of the stakeholders.
Corporate 
Sustainability 
and Product & 
Operations 
Sustainability
Own operations
Internal
Business 
Partners' Code of 
Conduct
It sets out the Group expectations toward its Business 
Partners in terms of, among other topics, environmental 
impacts. More specifically: EssilorLuxottica seeks Business 
Partners that address climate change and preserve the 
environment by reducing energy consumption, limiting 
carbon footprint across the value chain and being resilient 
to climate-related risks. 
Compliance/
Sourcing & 
Procurement
Upstream and 
downstream
Public
The Group is also working on a dedicated Corporate energy management policy that will be issued in due course to complement the 
already existing local procedures.
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
37

--- PAGE BREAK ---

2.1.5
Actions and Resources
To deploy its strategy and achieve its commitments, the 
Company, with the involvement of different functions has 
identified several decarbonization initiatives that are described 
below.
Product evolution
Increasing the use of renewable energy
In 2024, the Group installed and started up different on-site 
renewable energy plants on 10 sites and 9 countries (China, 
France, Italy, Mexico, Netherlands, Portugal, Thailand, UK and 
US). These investments add a new capacity of 37.8 MWp, and, in 
a full year, generate approximatively 58,909  MWh/year and 
reduce more than 31,000 tCO2e/year. 
Of these, the most important projects in the reporting year, in 
terms of CO2e reductions, are:
•
the installation of photovoltaic panels, ground mounted, in 
the facility of Barberini, Città Sant’Angelo (Italy), with a 
capacity of 20 MWp, able to generate 33,800 MWh/year;
•
the installation of photovoltaic panels on the roof of Oakley’s 
headquarter in the US, with a capacity of 1.9 MWp able to 
generate approximatively 3,190 MWh/year; 
•
the installation of photovoltaic panels on the roof of the 
factory in Rayong (Thailand) corresponding to a total 
capacity of 11  MWp that are expected to generate 
approximately 15,600 MWh/year of renewal energy per year;
•
the installation of photovoltaic panels on the roof of Tristar 
factory in Dongguan, China, with a capacity of 2.1 MWp able 
to generate approximatively 2,415 MWh/year. 
Taking into account the actual operating hours of all on-site 
renewable energy plants in 2024, including the ones started up 
during the year, that brought only a partial contribution, the 
actual generated power is 20,902  MWh which would have 
emitted 10,913  tCO2e more if the Group had not used 
renewable energy. 
Over the next five  years, the Group’s renewable energy 
roadmap foresees the installation of more generating assets, in 
several different countries, and the achievement of a total onsite production of renewable electricity of more than 
95,000  MWh/year (around 5% of the Group’s electricity 
consumption), reducing more than 54,000 tCO2e/year.
In addition, early 2025, a 5  MW biomass plant in the Agordo 
factory, Italy, will start operating, using residual biomass 
generated by the maintenance of local forests to generate 
thermal and cooling energy that will be used to cover the 
factory’s need. 
The Group has also continued to switch to renewable energy 
sources worldwide in 2024. Specifically, the supply of renewable 
energy 
covers 
a 
significant 
percentage 
of 
electricity 
consumption for its sites, offices and stores in Europe, including 
new countries such as Hungary. The Group has also continued 
to increase the renewable energy quota for the Asia-Pacific 
area. Without this renewable energy supply program, the Group 
would have emitted 550,000 tons of CO2e emissions more in 
these countries in 2024, which is also reflected in the marketbased Scope  2 emissions. Besides, it is worth noting that in 
2023, EssilorLuxottica sites in Italy started using renewable 
energy following the 12-year Power Purchase Agreement (PPA) 
signed with ERG Power Generation for the supply of 
approximately 900  GWh of green energy between 2023 and 
2034. The agreement is based on the sale by ERG for 
approximately 75% of the energy produced by its PartinicoMonreale wind farm near Palermo, Italy, which consists of 
10 turbines of 4.2 MW with total installed power of 42 MW and 
an estimated annual production of 94 GWh.
Operations efficiency 
Improving energy efficiency
Within the Group Operations’ scope, it is worth listing some of 
the main initiatives for energy conservation pursued across 
different Business Units and Regions.
1.
Cooling optimization: cooling applications for both process 
and conditioning can have an important impact in terms of 
energy consumption. As part of the Company’s investments 
in cooling technologies optimization, in 2024, more than 
15  cooling systems were replaced with higher efficiency 
units, or optimized with design or technology updates 
(adiabatic cooling systems, cooling tower technology, etc.). 
With the same approach, the company has budgeted to 
continue investing in the 2025-2030 period on technology 
turnover finalized to energy conservation, consisting in 
modifying or reengineering existing solutions and creating 
best practices on the design and management phase.
2.
Electric motors: the large electrical motors used in the 
Group’s major mass production sites for lenses have been 
identified as an opportunity for efficiency. In 2024, more 
than 70 motors were replaced with higher efficiency units, 
that can help to gain 3-5% of energy efficiency depending 
on the size and application. In 2025 and following years, the 
Company is planning further investments in newer and 
higher efficiency solutions combined to the technology 
turnover.
3.
AR Ecokit: Anti-reflective Ecokit is a technical solution that 
Satisloh has identified to reduce the impact of the machines 
for thin film coating applications, which is among the most 
energy intensive technology in the lens manufacturing 
process. An energy reduction solution has been identified 
to reduce heat dispersion and energy consumption during 
the idle/no added value steps of the process. This solution 
has become a company standard for the new machines 
while there is a plan to install the same standard for all 
applications currently used in the different geographies. The 
initiative has been included in the 2025 budget to be 
continued and should be completed with 100% coverage of 
existing applications by 2026.
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
38
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

4.
Lighting: LED technology for lighting applications both in 
the new facilities and in older ones has been identified as 
another opportunity for the Group to reduce the overall 
CO2e emissions footprint. A specific standard has been 
defined for new lighting applications while, for existing 
ones, specific projects have been planned to identify the 
opportunities through the metering system distributed at 
regional level, building business cases with clear targets in 
terms of energy reduction. The plan is to continue to invest 
in 2025 and convert old facilities with new LED technology, 
covering all the production sites where incandescent 
technology is present.
5.
Compressed air: thanks to energy metering, there are best 
practices identified and planned to be extended whenever 
there is the opportunity. An example is the usage of 
compressors to produce hot water to be reused in the 
process support equipment. In 2024, more than 10 sites 
have replaced their units with higher efficiency ones or 
reviewed design/pipe distribution to enhance overall 
performance. In 2024, the first facility with 100% heating 
solution coming from internal resources recovery using this 
technology was built in France, with more applications 
planned in the budget for the 2025-2030 period.
Regarding waste minimization initiatives that contribute to the 
carbon footprint reduction, projects are described in Section 2.4 
ESRS E5 – Resource Use and Circular Economy.
EssilorLuxottica 
has 
also 
implemented 
environmental 
management systems that conform to the ISO 14001 standard. 
As a result, 37 of its manufacturing facilities, 20 lens laboratories, 
five distribution centers and three corporate offices are 
ISO 14001 certified, which covers around 32% of the total Group 
headcount.
In addition, associated with the Company’s efforts to improve 
energy efficiency and structure its energy management systems, 
12 of its manufacturing facilities, two lens laboratories, four 
distribution centers and three corporate offices have obtained 
ISO 50001 certification over the years which covers around 15% 
of the Group total headcount. ISO  50001 certification is 
complementary to ISO  14001 certification and enables the 
Company to assess the energy footprint of its sites and 
strengthen energy management.
Supply chain optimization
In 2024, EssilorLuxottica introduced its first sustainable supply 
chain roadmap, centred on the following four levers:
•
reduce carbon footprint;
•
optimize regionalization and replenishment;
•
improve circularity;
•
invest in low-carbon supply chain and stock.
To support the mapping and projection of supply chain flows 
for frames, components, and finished and prescription lenses, a 
digital modelling and simulation of the Group’s own 
manufacturing and logistic footprint was started. The simulation, 
which included raw materials, aimed to deliver a five-year 
growth projection of the footprint and associated impacts, 
specifically on raw materials, energy, and logistics. Ultimately, 
this tool will help the Group to analyse scenarios and support 
manufacturing strategic decision-making.
Another strategic study on a complete pair service (delivering a 
pair of eyeglasses with prescription directly to a store) was 
launched to identify the sustainability benefits and limit the 
impacts. Supported by a Life Cycle Analysis, this study covered 
a pilot transformation project in Poland where the Group’s retail 
stores are now served by the regional laboratory, providing 
better performances while saving 100% water and significantly 
reducing raw materials consumption and improving waste 
management. This study will support the scale up of the 
complete pair service within the Group. These initiatives are 
part of the strategy planned to be implemented until 2030.
Finally, a whole program of awareness and training on 
sustainability culture has been launched for the logistics and 
supply chain functions, and is planned to be completed by all 
supply chain teams globally by the end of 2026.
Logistics optimization
The transportation and distribution of products accounts for 
some of the most important indirect carbon emissions sources. 
The Company has a team dedicated to low-carbon supply chain 
initiatives, including carbon reporting guidelines, engagement 
with suppliers and action plans to reduce GHG emissions. The 
full Logistics organization has defined an integrated strategy 
based on five pillars, explained below, which contribute to reach 
the near-term carbon emissions reduction targets by 2030.
Alternative to air for non-urgent orders 
(sea or ground transportation)
As more than 90% of its Logistics CO2e emissions are coming 
from air transportation, the Group has identified ‘alternative to 
air’ transportation services with acceptable lead times in some 
major international lanes, in order to minimize the impact of 
switching from air to other transportation modes (e.g., rail 
transportation mode from Asia Pacific countries to Europe, 
Middle East, Africa countries and fast boat solutions from Asia 
Pacific countries to North America destinations). This initiative 
was boosted in 2024 with the switch to ocean and train 
shipments for frames from Asia Pacific countries to Europe 
Middle East Africa and North America destinations. The plan for 
the coming years is to continue to increase the percentage of 
‘alternative to air’ transportation modes that will be the main 
contributor to commit with the near-term CO2e emissions 
reduction targets by 2030.  For both frames and lenses, the 
target is to increase progressively, starting from 2024 until 2030, 
the percentage of ‘alternative to air’ transportation modes, 
moving from 7% to 40% for frames and from 60% to 80% for 
lenses.
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
39

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Air fleet renewal & optimized routings for urgent orders
At the beginning of 2024, EssilorLuxottica started an initiative 
dedicated to prompting its suppliers to use the lowest CO2e 
emissions air transportation by combining the latest generation 
of aircraft models with the most efficient and optimized 
routings. Thanks to an exhaustive mapping among many market 
solutions proposed by the suppliers, reductions of up to 35% of 
CO2e emissions can be realized during an international air flight. 
These reductions result from a comparison between a first 
option, combining the utilization of previous generation aircraft 
passengers models and a multi-route itinerary until final 
destination, and a second option made of direct cargo routes 
using the latest generation of aircraft cargo models. This 
initiative is part of the strategy planned to be implemented 
progressively until 2030 on all international lanes representing 
the highest shipment volumes.
On top of that, from now on, this performance criteria will be 
included in the selection process of awarding the international 
lanes to the Group’s suppliers during the yearly Request For 
Quotation process. Moreover, the suppliers will be monitored 
on a monthly basis according to the committed agreements 
regarding the overall emissions recorded on the specific 
international lanes awarded.
Last mile segmentation
Another initiative to reduce the Group logistics’ emissions refers 
to the maximization of road transportation concerning all 
domestic flows, benefiting from an emission factor intensity 5 to 
10 times lower than that of air transportation. In the steps 
toward the decarbonization of transportation, EssilorLuxottica 
has also invested in the electric mobility for goods 
transportation. Starting from June 2024, an owned electric truck 
has been activated for transporting goods from the Italian 
distribution center based in Sedico to the hub of an Italian 
logistics partner.
Shipment optimization
Several actions have been implemented and progressively 
deployed in several entities of the Group in the last two years to 
benefit from the optimization of all shipment preparation. One 
of the broader actions refers to the systematic consolidation of 
more and more shipments from different entities in the same 
country, as well as shipments to different customers in the same 
region. The Group has also generalized the usage of stackable 
pallets enabling an increased fill rate of up to 74% globally on 
the containers shipped from Asian and Latin American entities 
in 2024. Also the fill rate of the carton boxes used for the 
finished or semi-finished lenses shipped from Asian, North 
American and Latin American entities has increased up to 82% 
in 2024. The 2030 goal is to standardize the usage of stackable 
pallets in order to reach at least 80% of container saturation, as 
well as to progressively raise the fill rate of carton boxes to an 
average of 90%.
Industrial process & network optimization
The Group is benefiting from the nearshoring of some lens 
volumes produced in the Asian manufacturing sites closer to the 
European and American markets thanks to an increased 
automation in the semi-finished lens casting processes. 
According to the progressive roll out of this automation until 
2030, the target is to transfer more lens production volumes to 
the European and American manufacturing sites to cover the 
respective markets, thereby also reducing transportation 
distances and therefore carbon emissions. 
Moreover, the Group is working on the manufacturing of lighter 
semi-finished lenses, which will also contribute to reducing 
CO2e emissions resulting from transportation. 
Upstream improvement and others initiatives
Building guidelines
The Company’s ‘New Building Guidelines’ include criteria to 
obtain Gold level LEED certification for all of its new 
manufacturing and distribution buildings and climate-related 
criteria such as renewable energy consideration, air emissions, 
water risk management, waste management and site location 
selection including climate risk analysis. These criteria attest that 
the design and construction respect the surrounding ecosystem 
and were applied to the facilities built in recent years in France, 
Thailand and Mexico. Sustainability considerations are also 
applied to the Group’s store network, as described in 
Section 2.4 ESRS E5 – Resource Use and Circular Economy.
Engaging all stakeholders on the climate journey
Communication and training on the Eyes on the Planet program 
for employees and customers support the execution of the 
aforementioned actions and measures. An example is the Eyes 
on the Planet Newsletter, that in 2024 increased its audience 
reaching via mail to over 100,000 employees for each issue and 
focused on climate actions and key sustainability projects within 
the Group. 
A specific dashboard with key environmental performance 
information for the Group’s main Operations sites is also 
regularly updated in production sites to raise awareness on 
environmental topics. 
In addition, interactive climate change awareness workshops, 
designed for small groups to increase awareness on climate 
change consequences and engage employee action reached 
more than 4,500 employees across 51 countries, counting a total 
of more than 1,100 workshops delivered since their initiation in 
2020. Virtual classrooms on climate change are also regularly 
hosted on the Leonardo learning platform. 
External 
stakeholders 
are 
equally 
important 
for 
EssilorLuxottica’s ambition to lead by example with its climate 
and sustainability journey. In 2024, the third edition of its 
‘Sustainability Week’ took place on Earth Day to support the 
official Earth Day 2024 theme – ‘Planet vs. Plastics’ – and raised 
awareness on sustainable practices.
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
40
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Throughout 
the 
week, 
live 
events 
were 
hosted 
on 
EssilorLuxottica’s Leonardo learning platform to present 
‘Sustainability and Mission: 2023 Highlights’ and ‘Eyes on the 
Planet vs. Plastics’, each attracting over 3,000 participants, 
including employees and customers, twice the audience of the 
previous edition, which further confirms the increasing 
importance these topics have in the Company’s ecosystem.
To support its climate journey, EssilorLuxottica seeks to work 
with Business Partners that run their businesses and supply 
chains responsibly and in compliance with applicable laws and 
regulations and, more specifically, that are keen on addressing 
climate change and preserving the environment by reducing 
energy consumption, limiting carbon footprint across the value 
chain, and being resilient to climate-related risks. Environmental 
criteria are assessed through the EcoVadis platform and on-site 
Responsible Sourcing audits. The Responsible Sourcing team 
defines requirements and related evaluation criteria to seek and 
assess suppliers’ answers on questions dedicated to climate 
change and energy consumption. In general, suppliers must 
comply with all national laws and international regulations 
regarding environmental compliance and governance, which 
includes documentation on environmental permits/licenses and 
a clear identification of roles and responsibilities. For more 
information on the Company’s responsible sourcing program, 
refer to Section 3.2 ESRS S2 – Workers in the Value Chain.
Reducing 
Scope 
3 
emissions 
is 
a 
key 
element 
of 
EssilorLuxottica’s climate journey. As shown in Section  2.1.8 
Total GHG Emissions (Scopes  1,  2  and  3), Scope  3 emissions 
represent more than 85% of the Group’s carbon footprint, with a 
significant part related to the purchasing of raw materials, 
components, products and services. Some of the Group’s key 
suppliers have been asked to complete a questionnaire to share 
information about their sustainability strategy to reduce their 
own carbon emissions, the availability of emission factors and 
Life Cycle Analysis data related to products and services 
purchased by the Group. This questionnaire has been built to 
engage with suppliers with the purpose of creating synergies to 
lower the entire value chain emissions and to further increase 
the accuracy of the Group carbon footprint assessment. In line 
with its new Scope 3 emissions reduction target, the Company 
will bring its suppliers and business partners along its 
decarbonization journey.
In total, all the initiatives mentioned in this section enabled the 
Group to reduce its emissions by approximately 450,000 tons of 
CO2e in 2024 compared to the 2022 baseline. This impact does 
not take into consideration other aspects that might affect the 
Group emissions. The overall trend of the Group GHG 
emissions 
is 
disclosed 
in 
2.1.8 
Total 
GHG 
Emissions 
(Scopes 1, 2 and 3).
However, these different actions are preconditioned by the 
availability of financial support, the local regulatory frameworks, 
the energy market conditions and the engagement of the 
suppliers in this journey.
In this respect, associated CapEx amounted to €29  millions in 
2024. Total CapEx is reported in Chapter 5 of the 2024 Universal 
Registration 
Document, 
Section 
5.1.6 
Notes 
to 
the 
Consolidated Financial  Statements, Note  10 Goodwill and 
Other Intangible Assets, Note  11 Property, Plant and 
Equipment, and Note 12 Leases to the financial statements.
Regarding the EU Green Taxonomy, information is available in 
Section  2.5 EU Taxonomy Disclosure. Differences in CapEx 
amounts can be explained by the fact that that the Group 
launched some energy reduction initiatives that are not 
considered eligible (e.g., eco-kit or replacement of motors), as 
these actions are not described in the current version of the 
regulation.
2.1.6
Targets
Since its creation, EssilorLuxottica has been committed to 
minimizing its environmental impact throughout the entire value 
chain, aiming to mitigate the effects of climate change on the 
planet. The first Group milestone set in 2021 regards the 
reduction and neutralization of the carbon footprint of its direct 
operations (Scopes 1 and 2) globally by 2025 (already achieved 
in Europe in 2023). 
A new key step in the Company’s efforts to reduce the 
environmental impact across its entire value chain has been 
achieved with the validation of near-term greenhouse gas 
(GHG) emissions reduction targets by the Science-Based 
Targets initiative.
As mentioned in Section  2.1.3 Transition Plan for Climate 
Change Mitigation, EssilorLuxottica committed to reducing 
absolute Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 42% by 2030, from a 
2022 base year. Additionally, the Group committed to reducing 
absolute Scope  3 GHG emissions from purchased goods and 
services (not including Equipment, Instruments and Wearables 
sub-categories), fuel- and energy-related activities, upstream 
transportation and distribution, and waste generated in 
operations by 25% within the same timeframe. 
The Group designed its emission reduction plan for Scopes  1 
and 2 and for Scope 3 by firstly estimating the potential increase 
of its emissions up to 2030 excluding any emissions reduction 
impact deriving from its decarbonization initiatives. Afterwards, 
the impact of the different decarbonization levers was estimated 
for the same timeframe and applied to the model. These levers 
and their related impact are described in Section 2.1.5 Actions 
and Resources. 
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
41

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The charts below show the main carbon reduction levers that EssilorLuxottica has identified in order to achieve its 2030 targets for 
Scopes 1 and 2 and Scope 3. The magnitude of the expected impact deriving from these levers will naturally evolve in line with the 
Group internal strategies, progress and new initiatives:
Scopes 1 & 2 emissions reduction plan (Ktons CO2e)
705
409
Baseline 2022
2030 Estimated emissions
Renewable energy
Supply chain optimization
2030 Target
—
200
400
600
800
1,000
With regards to Scopes  1 and 2, the Group will continue to 
invest in the renewable energy production and purchase while 
expanding the application of its best practices on efficiency and 
optimizing its supply chain network. 
In the baseline 2022, Scope 1 represented 23% of the combined 
Scopes 1&2 emissions and Scope 2 represented the remaining 
77%. The Scopes  1 and 2 target has been validated by SBTi, 
recognized as in line with the ‘1.5 degrees’ path. 
Scope 3 emissions reduction plan (Ktons CO2e)
2,408
1,807
Baseline 2022
2030 Estimated 
emissions
Product evolution
Upstream 
improvement & 
others initiatives
Supply chain 
optimization
Logistics 
optimization
2030 Target
—
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
3,500
On Scope 3, instead, EssilorLuxottica plans to benefit from the 
evolution of its products, by lowering their impact from an 
energy and materials usage perspective, as well as from the 
described levers related to supply chain and logistics 
optimization and from improvements on the upstream part of its 
value chain.
The Scope 3 target has been validated by SBTi, recognized as in 
line with the ‘well-below 2 degrees’ path and in line with the 
climate mitigation efforts outlined in the Paris Agreement 
adopted by the United Nations in 2015.
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
42
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

It is worth noting that the 2022 baseline emissions are slightly different from the 2022 data reported in the 2023 Universal Registration 
Document following some refinements during the target validation process. The table below summarizes the Company’s Scopes 1 
and 2 and Scope 3 science-based targets.
Emission reduction targets – Scopes 1,2 and 3 
2022 
(baseline)
2030 target
Absolute 
reduction % of reduction
Scopes 1 and 2 (KtCO2e)
705
409
-296
42%
Scope 3 (KtCO2e)
2,408
1,806
-602
25%
TOTAL (KtCO2e)
 
3,112 
2,215 
-897
Consistency of GHG emissions reduction targets with GHG 
inventory boundaries has been ensured during the target 
submission and validation processes with SBTi.  Cross-sector 
pathway provided by SBTi was used. The target boundary 
includes land-related emissions and removals from bioenergy 
feedstocks. 
Specific targets for climate change adaptation, renewable 
energy deployment and energy efficiency have not been set.
2.1.7
Energy Consumption and Mix
Below is a table summarizing the Group’s energy consumption for 2024 by energy type.
2024 value 
Total electricity consumption
1,923.76
Of which produced on site from renewable sources:
20.90
•
from photovoltaic panels
20.90
Of which from renewable energy credits
927.36
Of which purchased from the local grids 
975.50
•
from nuclear
94.97
•
from fossil coal
224.23
•
from oil
•
from natural gas
330.40
•
from other fossil fuel sources
20.84
•
from renewable sources
305.06
Steam (GWh)
6.04
•
from fossil fuel sources
4.56
•
from renewable sources
1.48
Liquid fuel (GWh)
16.12
•
from fossil fuel sources
16.12
•
from renewable sources
Natural gas (GWh)
215.01
Fuel for Company cars (GWh)
4.97
Coal and coal products
Other fossil sources
Non-renewable energy production
Consumption of self-generated non-fuel renewable energy
TOTAL FOSSIL ENERGY CONSUMPTION (GWh)
816.13
Share of fossil sources in total energy consumption (%)
 
38% 
Consumption from nuclear sources (GWh)
94.97
Share of consumption from nuclear sources in total energy consumption (%)
 
4% 
TOTAL RENEWABLE ENERGY CONSUMPTION (GWh)
1,254.80
Share of renewable sources in total energy consumption (%)
 
58% 
TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION (GWh)
2,165.90
For more information on the reporting rules for energy and on the estimation methodology, please refer to Section 5 Methodology 
Note.
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
43

--- PAGE BREAK ---

In 2024, the Group energy consumption remained at a similar 
level as 2023 (2,149 GWh). In line with EssilorLuxottica’s climate 
roadmap, the Group has continuously extended the use of 
renewable energy. Specifically, thanks to the constant 
investments and gradual roll-out of photovoltaic panels, the on 
site production of renewable energy increased by 65% in 2024. 
Meanwhile, the amount of purchased renewable energy with 
Energy Attribute Certificates (EACs) has registered an increase 
of 32% compared to the previous year. 
In 
2024, 
the 
distribution 
of 
energy 
consumption 
per 
geographical area was as follows: Asia-Pacific (43%), EMEA 
(28%), North America (20%) and Latin America (9%).
The energy intensity is 0.08kWh/€. The sector used is 
‘Manufacture of medical and dental instruments and supplies’ as 
this is the NACE code of the Group. The revenues used are 
€26,508  million as mentioned in the financial statement in 
Chapter  5 of the 2024 Universal Registration Document, 
Section 5.1.1 Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss.
Renewable energy credits
As described in Section 2.1.5 Actions and Resources, the Group 
is constantly working to switch to renewable energy sources 
worldwide and thanks to the renewable energy purchasing 
program, more than 550,000 tons of CO2e emissions have not 
been emitted in 2024. The percentage of contractual 
instruments purchased is split between: International Renewable 
Energy Certificates (I-RECs) for 52%, Guarantee of Origin (GOs) 
for 39%, Tradable Instruments for Global Renewables (TIGR) for 
10% and Renewable Energy Guarantee of Origin (REGO) for 2%.
2.1.8
Total GHG Emissions 
(Scopes 1, 2 and 3)
EssilorLuxottica applies the Operational Control, as defined by 
the GHG Protocol, as Consolidation approach for its GHG 
emissions mainly due to its vertical integration, with the 
willingness to consider all the emissions linked to the actions 
driven by the Group. 
In 
2024, 
EssilorLuxottica 
updated 
its 
carbon 
footprint 
assessment globally, with the involvement of different functions 
across the organization, including Procurement, Logistics, EHS, 
Product & Operations Sustainability, Operations Engineering, 
HR, Real Estate and Finance. Following the guidelines of the 
GHG Protocol, the analysis provided a complete understanding 
of the Company’s direct and indirect CO2e impacts at each 
stage of the value chain, including a clear overview of all 
Scope  3 emissions relevant to the Group activities. The 
Company is constantly working to improve and refine the 
process to assess its carbon footprint.
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
44
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

2024
Base year 2022 Absolute evolution
SCOPE 1 GHG EMISSIONS (tCO2e) 
116,092
160,244
(44,152)
Stationary combustion
49,536
56,644
(7,108)
Mobile combustion
18,468
19,926
(1,458)
Fugitive emissions
48,088
83,674
(35,586)
LOCATION-BASED SCOPE 2 GHG EMISSIONS (tCO2e) 
958,447
788,024
170,423
Electricity consumption – Location-based
956,580
787,360
169,220
Company cars – Location based
133
215
(82)
Steam
1,734
449
1,285
MARKET-BASED SCOPE 2 GHG EMISSIONS (tCO2e) 
475,555
544,442
(68,887)
Electricity consumption – Market-based
473,579
543,771
(70,192)
Company cars – Market-based
242
222
20
Steam
1,734
449
1,285
SCOPE 3 GHG EMISSIONS (tCO2e) 
3,528,307
3,422,043
106,264
1.
Purchased goods and services 
1,879,135
1,822,207
56,928
2.
Capital goods 
370,364
439,864
(69,500)
3.
Fuel- and energy-related activities (not included in Scope 1 
or Scope 2) 
127,852
171,843
(43,991)
4.
Upstream transportation and distribution 
390,546
431,587
(41,041)
Of which Logistics managed by EssilorLuxottica
313,863
302,789
11,074
Of which Logistics managed by suppliers
76,682
128,798
(52,116)
5.
Waste generated in operations 
36,922
49,422
(12,500)
6.
Business travel
41,126
42,171
(1,045)
7.
Employee commuting 
127,025
80,399
46,626
10. Processing of sold products 
383,781
161,543
222,238
11. Use of sold products 
80,879
72,826
8,053
12. End-of-life treatment of sold products 
46,315
59,219
(12,904)
14. Franchises 
34,434
46,291
(11,857)
15. Investments 
9,929
44,672
(34,743)
TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS (LOCATION-BASED) (tCO2e) 
4,602,846
4,370,311
232,535
TOTAL GHG EMISSIONS (MARKET-BASED) (tCO2e) 
4,119,953
4,126,729
(6,775)
Scopes 1 & 2 GHG emissions (market-based) part of the science-based 
target
591,647
704,686
(113,040)
Scope 3 GHG emissions part of the science-based target
2,390,706
2,407,658
(16,952)
EssilorLuxottica’s reporting boundaries consider emissions from 
the relevant Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 categories. Scope 3 
emissions from GHG categories ‘Upstream Leased Assets’ (3.8), 
‘Downstream 
Transportation 
and 
Distribution’ 
(3.9) 
and 
‘Downstream leased assets’ (3.13) are excluded since they are 
considered not relevant or applicable to the EssilorLuxottica 
context. None of the Scope 1 GHG emissions are regulated by 
trading schemes.
In 2024, the total GHG emissions disclosed in the table above 
show a slight increase applying both a location and a marketbased approach. The Group applies the market-based method 
for the planning and deployment of its decarbonization 
strategies, as well as for the emissions reduction targets set in 
the reporting year. The GHG category that mainly led to an 
overall increase of emissions is the ‘Processing of sold 
products’ (3.10), affected by a substantial review of the emission 
factors applied, including all the possible consumptions deriving 
from the processing of sold lenses by customers. 
However, focusing the analysis only on the GHG emissions in 
the categories included in the Company’s science-based 
targets, a significant decrease can be appreciated in Scope  1 
and 2 emissions compared to the baseline, as well as a slight 
improvement in Scope  3 emissions. The advancements in the 
switch to renewable energy, in fact, are largely supporting the 
reduction of Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions. 
The Group is also committed to reducing of all the other GHG 
categories, expecting a progressive impact of the different 
decarbonization levers described in Section  2.1.5 Actions and 
Resources soon to be reflected in the Group carbon footprint. 
Moreover, EssilorLuxottica continuously seeks to identify new 
initiatives to further reduce its GHG emissions and considers the 
involvement of its stakeholders key to achieving a low-carbon 
future.
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
45

--- PAGE BREAK ---

In 2024, the distribution of Scope 1 emissions per geographical 
area was as follows: Asia-Pacific (33%), EMEA (45%), North 
America (15%) and Latin America (7%). The distribution of 
Scope 2 location-based emissions per geographical area was as 
follows: Asia-Pacific (66%), EMEA (14%), North America (14%) 
and Latin America (6%); as for Scope 2 market-based emissions, 
the geographical distribution was as follows: Asia-Pacific (49%), 
EMEA (9%), North America (29%) and Latin America (12%).
Biogenic CO2 emissions that occur in the value chain are not 
included in the Scopes, nor is the CO2 uptake, since the amount 
of biogenic materials is not relevant for EssilorLuxottica and the 
method applied to calculate the emission factors considered do 
not include biogenic CO2 emissions and uptake. For more 
information on the calculation and estimation methodology and 
related emission factors used, please refer to 5 Methodology 
Note.
In 2024, EssilorLuxottica’s carbon intensity per euro of revenue 
amounted to 0.174 kg CO2e/euro for location-based calculated 
emissions and 0.155 kg CO2e/euro for market-based calculated 
emissions. In 2024, the Group’s revenue equalled €26,508 million 
as reported in the financial statements (see Chapter  5, 
Section  5.1.1 Consolidated Statement of  Profit  or  Loss of the 
2024 Universal Registration Document).
To respond to the increasing demand for environmental 
transparency, EssilorLuxottica has disclosed through the Carbon 
Disclosure Project (CDP) Climate Change questionnaire since 
2022, and in 2024 received an ‘A-’ score (after a ‘B’ score in 
2023), in recognition of the improved environmental disclosure 
and performance. 
No significant events or changes occurred between the 
reporting dates of the entities and the date of the generalpurpose financial statements.
Finally, the Group, based on its activities, is not excluded from 
the EU Paris-aligned Benchmarks.
2.1.9
GHG Removals and GHG 
Mitigation Projects Financed 
Through Carbon Credits
The Company invests in natural ecosystem projects and buys 
carbon credits generated by nature-based projects or energy 
projects. EssilorLuxottica set selection criteria that consider 
projects located in countries where it operates and that have a 
positive impact on biodiversity and socio-economic development 
of local communities (e.g., creation of job opportunities). The 
Company’s criteria consider only carbon credits that have a 
vintage within five  years from the date of retirement and are 
verified by well-recognized international standards (e.g., Verified 
Carbon Standard – VCS – or Gold Standard). 
Moreover, EssilorLuxottica requires evidence from its carboncredit suppliers of their own specific due diligence for the 
projects selected. In 2024, the Company selected two VCS 
certified projects to support the afforestation of native species 
plants in barren lands in China and the generation of clean 
electricity through renewable solar energy sources in India, in 
line with Group’s efforts on its own value chain. 
To support the achievement of carbon neutrality in Europe in 
2024, balancing the residual emissions related to Scope 1 and 
Scope  2, approximately 81  ktCO2e of VCS certified carbon 
credits, with a vintage lower than five years, have been retired. 
Out of these 81  ktCO2e, more than 20% refer to removals 
related to the selected afforestation project in China, a project 
ICROA (International Carbon Reduction and Offset Alliance) 
approved and CCB (Climate, Community and Biodiversity) 
certified. The residual part, instead, refers to reductions deriving 
from the renewable solar power projects selected in 2024 and 
2023 in India. 
In fact, carbon credits for 19.8 ktCO2e retired in 2024 were still 
available from the selection performed in 2023. The projects 
supported are selected on a yearly basis, thus a year over year 
comparison is not relevant. A residual part of carbon credits 
purchased in 2024 and not retired will be canceled in 2025, 
accounting for 24 ktCO2e.
Carbon Credits canceled in the reporting year
Verification standard
tCO2e
TOTAL CREDITS CANCELED
81,482
Removal – afforestation
Verified Carbon Standard
17,000
Reduction – solar panel installation
Verified Carbon Standard
44,682
Reduction – solar panel installation
Verified Carbon Standard
19,800
SHARE FROM REMOVAL PROJECTS (%)
 
21% 
SHARE FROM REDUCTION PROJECTS (%)
 
79% 
% for each recognised quality standard 
 
100% 
 
100% 
% issued from projects in the EU 
 
-% 
 
-% 
% that qualifies as a corresponding adjustment under Article. 6 
of the Paris Agreement 
 
-% 
Carbon credits planned to be canceled in the future 
23,318
2.1.10
Internal Carbon Pricing
The Group has not implemented an internal price on environmental externalities for the time being. However, a specific analysis will 
be devoted to the topic in due course.
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
46
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

2.2
ESRS E2 – Pollution
2.2.1
Introduction
EssilorLuxottica is committed to eliminating or minimizing all 
possible impacts on the environment and on Health & Safety 
deriving from its operations, products and stores throughout 
the design, manufacturing, distribution, and use of its products. 
This implies ensuring its products and operations are safe for its 
employees, customers and consumers as well as for the 
environment, in compliance with chemical and product safety 
regulations. The Company indeed implements strict control 
over hazardous substances in chemicals, materials and 
components and ensures the replacement of those with 
unacceptable risk.
This Section  provides an overview of policies, actions, metrics 
and, when available, targets to prevent, mitigate and remediate 
actual and potential material impacts, to address material risks 
and/or to pursue material opportunities related to pollution.
2.2.2
Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities
Material 
ESG topic 
IRO name
IRO description
Policy
Target/Metric
Pollution 
Prevention
Risk of infringements 
of pollution-related 
regulations and of 
cost due to 
remediation actions
Failing to reduce the environmental impacts of air 
or water pollution from the manufacturing sites 
and lens laboratories could lead to noncompliance with pollution prevention regulations, 
resulting in penalties, fines, increased operational 
costs and legal liabilities. Additionally, regulatory 
violations could damage the company’s 
reputation, leading to loss of consumer trust, 
investor confidence, and market competitiveness.
•
EHS Policy
•
Business 
Partners Code 
of Conduct
•
Product 
Stewardship – 
Safety and 
Compliance 
of Chemicals, 
Materials and 
Components 
Policy
•
Zero PCL1 
chemicals in its 
manufacturing 
processes
•
No introduction 
of PCL2 chemicals 
or PFAS for new 
products and 
processes
Product 
Safety
Potential impact 
on human health 
and the environment
Potential exposure to substances of concern 
and microplastics could threaten health, causing 
allergic reactions, toxicity, or long-term health 
issues. Additionally, the release of microplastics 
and harmful chemicals into the environment 
during production process, use, or disposal of 
products can lead to water contamination and 
contribute to broader environmental degradation.
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
47

--- PAGE BREAK ---

2.2.3
Policies
Environment 
Health & Safety 
Policy 
It articulates EssilorLuxottica’s commitment to minimize the 
environmental impact of its operations, products and services, by: 
•
reducing the emissions of any pollutants;
•
reducing the production of waste by facilitating reuse and 
recycling of materials;
•
reducing the use of substances that are potentially hazardous 
for the people and the environment;
•
constantly improving the condition of its workplaces, by 
identifying hazards, assessing Health & Safety risks and 
implementing suitable preventive measures to eliminate hazards 
and reduce risks.
EHS
Own 
operations
Public 
Business Partners 
Code of Conduct
It sets out the Group expectations toward its Business Partners in 
terms of, among others, environmental impacts. EssilorLuxottica 
seeks Business Partners that implement and/or pursue initiatives that 
contribute to the decrease of environmental impacts by responsibly 
managing natural resources, protecting local biodiversity and natural 
ecosystems, and preventing pollution and deforestation.
Compliance/
Sourcing & 
Procurement
Upstream 
and 
downstream
Public
Product 
Stewardship – 
Safety and 
Compliance 
of Chemicals, 
Materials and 
Components 
Policy
Product Stewardship is a Health & Safety and environmental 
management strategy that involves proactive management of 
chemicals and materials to design, produce, sell, or use a product. 
The objective of this document is to outline management methods 
and parties involved in product stewardship, including to:
•
ensure compliance with chemical regulations/laws;
•
extend awareness of the relevance of compliance to legislation/
law across the whole Group;
•
ensure that risks associated with the storage, use and disposal 
of chemicals and materials within EssilorLuxottica workplaces 
are controlled and managed;
•
state roles and responsibilities of subjects involved in product 
stewardship and chemical management activities as well as 
related control principles;
•
define rules and guidelines that must be followed to guarantee 
achievement of product stewardship objectives;
•
regulate roles and responsibilities of parties involved as well 
as related control principles.
Through this policy, EssilorLuxottica manages the internal list 
of prohibited and restricted chemicals and also presents risk 
assessment and control measures as well as emergency procedures.
The document is based on relevant standards, such as ISO 45001 
(occupational Health & Safety), ISO 14001 (environmental 
management systems), ISO 13485 (medical devices – Quality 
management systems), ISO 9001 (quality management systems), 
and the Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling 
of Chemicals (GHS).
Requirements set up for EssilorLuxottica prohibited and restricted 
chemicals list and PCL (priority chemical levels) rules are a worldwide 
internal policy even if local regulatory requirements may be less 
strict.
EHS
Own 
operations
Internal 
Document 
Main content 
Function
Scope
Availability
In addition to these Corporate policies, different local procedures can also be available and overseen by local management, for 
example, action plans for Emergency or Incident, investigation procedure and an approval process for new chemicals and direct 
materials.
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
48
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

2.2.4
Actions and Resources
To ensure the elimination and minimization of possible impacts 
on the environment and on the Health & Safety of its value 
chain, EssilorLuxottica has set several initiatives as summarized 
below:
Water quality
The quantity and quality of water discharge are monitored and 
managed, in particular whenever these aspects might face any 
risk of being affected by operations processes. EssilorLuxottica 
has invested in on-site wastewater treatment systems at several 
of its facilities that integrate treatment and recycling of 
wastewater into a single flow or complete process. 
In addition, suspended material parameters are monitored 
within the ‘Wastewater Model’ program, which helps to identify 
required actions to prevent water discharge incidents outside 
permitted limits, especially due to the reduction of water 
withdrawal that will consequently increase the concentration of 
pollutants. It also helps create opportunities for water closeloop solutions, thus making water itself reusable and compatible 
with manufacturing processes. 
To reduce water use and recover wastewater, on-site closed 
circuit water recycling systems have been installed for 
prescription lenses generation processes and in galvanizing 
plants and painting processes. In addition, a project for 
cascading water in the hard-coat process has been completed 
in European Rx labs, allowing to re-use water in the different 
sequential steps of the process.
Air emissions
In terms of air pollution, the Company complies specifically with 
international, regional or local regulations, applying and 
managing air emissions permits where needed. Through 
regional/local guidelines, the EHS function supervises the 
process to determine if an air permit is needed and to support 
the business in applying for it and managing all the compliance 
requirements in the activities. Where specific requirements are 
in place, treatment systems are implemented and managed to 
guarantee compliance with all permitted parameters. One 
example is the treatment of volatile organic compounds, as 
some of the sites using coatings processes are required to 
install regenerative thermal oxidizer systems to remove solvents 
from air emissions and comply with emissions limits.
Microplastics and plastic pollution
Microplastics and plastic pollution are given great attention by 
the Company, ensuring that plastic particles are not released 
from its operations process into the environment. Sources of 
microplastics have been identified, for example, the residual 
from the generation of prescription lenses and acetate frames 
swarf. There is a strong focus on how to avoid their introduction 
in the Operations processes, reuse/recycle this material in a 
circular way or to valorize whenever it becomes waste. As of 
today, microplastics are either disposed of or thermally 
valorized (using ashes in downstream processes to avoid any 
waste residual), or recycled for specific applications, regulated 
by the internal policy on waste recycling.
Substances of concern/high concern
EssilorLuxottica is committed to protecting the Health & Safety 
of its employees and customers and the security of its products 
as well as ensuring a safe workplace. The Company’s prohibited 
and restricted chemicals list and Priority Chemical Levels (PCL) 
rules are a worldwide internal policy based on existing 
compulsory 
global 
regulations, 
with 
stricter 
limitations 
compared to local regulations should there be evidence that 
they may present safety risks for people and the environment. 
Three priority chemical levels (PCL) and associated actions have 
been identified as follows:
•
PCL1: prohibited chemicals: substitute it now, that is, the use 
of PCL1 chemicals is prohibited at any EssilorLuxottica 
workplace;
•
PCL2: restricted chemicals: plan for replacement, implying 
that they are prohibited in case of any new chemical or direct 
material introduction, whereas for existing uses strong efforts 
must be made to identify and validate replacement solutions 
without undue delay;
•
PCL3: chemicals that may be escalated: consider safer 
alternative wherever technically/economically possible.
All existing chemical inventories must be screened by facilities 
on a regular basis to track PCL chemicals. Moreover, the Group 
has been working on the creation of a unique ‘Chemicals 
Management tool’ to allow a strict control of existing and new 
chemicals, managing compliance, industrial hygiene and risk 
assessment for any new chemicals introduced in the 
manufacturing processes and ultimately assessing, controlling 
and mitigating the risk in a proactive manner. The rollout of this 
digital solution on the entire scope of Operations is expected to 
be completed by the end of 2026. Also, the Company is working 
to implement a comprehensive global database of all the 
Environmental permits, in 2025, to facilitate central compliance 
monitoring. 
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
49

--- PAGE BREAK ---

In addition, regulatory bodies’ attention to per- and 
polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) is increasing due to their 
ability to accumulate in the environment. Existing PFAS at 
EssilorLuxottica are being progressively replaced by non-PFAS 
alternatives and the Group is committed to not introducing any 
new PFAS. Therefore, any new chemical or direct material 
containing PFAS cannot be approved unless there are special 
circumstances, and requests for temporary derogations in such 
cases must be reviewed and approved by Business Unit Leaders 
and the EHS function. As PFAS information is often missing in 
the chemical composition included in safety data sheets and/or 
other relevant documentation, it is necessary to request 
information from suppliers to ensure chemicals/or direct 
materials do not contain PFAS. A signed PFAS declaration must 
be obtained from the supplier prior to a new chemical/or direct 
material being approved by EHS and introduced at a facility. 
Thousands of different PFAS are listed in the prohibited and 
restricted chemicals list as PCL1, PCL2 or PCL3. However, as the 
PFAS category is very broad and there is no existing exhaustive 
inventory of PFAS with their CAS (Chemical Abstracts Service) 
numbers, it is necessary to use the PFAS definition covering the 
following structural formula to request information on PFAS: 
‘PFAS is defined as a chemical substance, or polymer, that 
includes at least one aliphatic (-CF2-) or (-CF3-) element’.
Value chain engagement
In addition to the actions implemented to ensure the Company 
is playing its role to minimize the possible impacts on 
environment and Health & Safety deriving from its own 
operations and products, EssilorLuxottica oversees the risks 
along its value chain, monitoring the potential and actual 
impacts of its suppliers. As described in ESRS E1 in the 
Section 2.1.5 Actions and Resources, the Responsible Sourcing 
team defines requirements and related evaluation criteria to 
seek and assess suppliers’ answers on questions dedicated to 
the environment. Regarding air emissions and climate change, 
suppliers must comply with national legislation and commit to 
actions to tackle climate change at their own sites. In the 
context of Responsible Sourcing audits with suppliers, where 
relevant and necessary, suppliers must have appropriate permits 
for the management of waste and hazardous materials, 
including the identification of storage areas, clear labelling, bulk 
chemical storage, spill response, storage tanks, as well as solid 
waste, 
soil 
and 
groundwater 
management. 
For 
more 
information on the Company’s responsible sourcing programme 
refer to Section 3.2 ESRS S2 – Workers in the Value Chain.
2.2.5
Targets and Metrics
In alignment with EssilorLuxottica’s Global EHS Policy, targets 
related to pollution refer to any international, regional or local 
regulations that may apply to the Company’s Operations.
Regarding substances of concern/high concern, EssilorLuxottica 
yearly aims at zero PCL1 chemicals in its manufacturing 
processes as well as no introduction of PCL2 chemicals or PFAS 
for new products and processes. In 2024, no PCL1 chemicals 
have been introduced and no PCL2 or PFAS have been 
approved for new products/processes, through the Corporate 
approval process.
2.3
ESRS E3 – Water and Marine Resources
2.3.1
Introduction
Water is a key natural resource for the Company’s activities, and 
it is a primary element for lens and frame manufacturing 
processes. Robust water management is not only important to 
ensure the quality, continuity and efficiency of production 
operations, but it is also essential for the well-being of the 
Group’s employees and local communities where present.
This section provides an overview of policies, actions, metrics 
and, when available, targets to prevent, mitigate and remediate 
actual and potential material impacts, to address material risks 
and/or to pursue material opportunities related to water 
resources.
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
50
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

2.3.2
Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities
Material ESG 
topic 
IRO name 
IRO description 
Policy
Target/Metric
Water 
Management
Risk of inefficient water 
management practices
Excessive water use and withdrawals, uncontrolled 
discharges or leaks of wastewater, can disrupt supply 
chains, particularly for water-dependent processes 
leading to higher operational costs, production 
delays, potential water pollution and regulatory fines.
•
EHS Policy
•
Business 
Partners Code 
of Conduct
•
Water 
withdrawals
Use of water resources 
that might impact local 
communities and the 
environment
Negative environmental damage (e.g., depletion 
of natural water resources resulting in the decay of 
related ecosystem services) due to inadequate water 
management, particularly in water-stressed areas, that 
can impact local communities.
2.3.3
Policies
Document
Main content
Function
Scope
Availability
Environment 
Health & Safety 
Policy
It articulates EssilorLuxottica’s commitment to minimize the 
environmental impact of its operations, products and services, 
by using natural resources (such as water) and raw materials 
rationally and reducing emissions of any pollutants.
EHS
Own
operations
Public
Business 
Partners Code 
of Conduct
It sets out the Group expectations toward its Business Partners 
in terms of, among others, the environment. More specifically: 
EssilorLuxottica seeks Business Partners that address climate 
change and preserve the environment by reducing water use.
Compliance/
Sourcing & 
Procurement
Upstream and 
downstream
Public
Waste Policy
The objective of this document is to regulate management 
methods and parties involved in relation to waste management, 
including wastewater cases.
EHS
Upstream 
and own 
operations
Internal
EssilorLuxottica’s water management policy will be issued in 2025 and will articulate the Company’s approach and guidelines on water 
management and treatment. This document will supplement the local procedures that already exist.
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
51

--- PAGE BREAK ---

2.3.4
Actions and Resources
Maximum attention is given to those water saving solutions that 
can limit withdrawals, especially in the regions at risk, and avoid 
direct discharge, making it possible to recycle or repurpose the 
process water internally. In this way, through specific tech 
solutions, it’s possible to close loops in the Operations 
applications, reducing the water volumes withdrawn and 
maintaining the quality required for its reuse.
Water risk assessment and reduction of water use
Water risks are periodically assessed in key areas where 
EssilorLuxottica sites are located. By doing so, the Company can 
identify potential impacts and monitor the implementation of 
water stewardship projects. 
Based on an analysis performed through the WWF Water Risk 
Filter, around 5% of the analysed assets accounting for less than 
1% of the Company’s current total water withdrawals (around 
60,000 m3), were exposed to very high or extreme water scarcity 
risks. 
EssilorLuxottica mitigates related water risks by defining a more 
stringent water roadmap for these sites with specific water 
efficiency targets, water supply management and interaction 
with local communities. Overall the Company undertakes 
several actions to reduce its water withdrawals, which include:
•
water mapping for equipment using water for main 
laboratories and mass production sites;
•
installation of ‘smart’ meters to accurately measure water use 
with different levels of granularity, which help structural 
improvements of traditional resource-heavy processes, such 
as galvanization;
•
comparison of site water performance with the benchmark 
process or ‘water model’;
•
closed-circuit water recycling systems have been installed for 
prescription 
lenses 
generation 
processes 
– 
standard 
application that has been defined as best practice and 
standardized across the organization, with huge focus in 
North America, and Mexican area where water stress is 
relevant;
•
defining a medium-term plan to reduce water use at site level.
Where water stress is material, the focus of the Company is on 
technologies whose water need is close to zero.
Manufacturing sites
Frame and lens manufacturing is water intense due to washing 
systems needed at different steps of the production process. In 
this regard, the Company has invested in the continuous 
improvement of manufacturing processes to further reduce its 
environmental impact, such as the installation of evaporator 
systems and wastewater treatment systems. 
In 2024, the Company invested in wastewater treatment systems 
at different sites to close the loop of manufacturing processes, 
treat the water and make it reusable in the same upstream 
processes. 
The level of treatment quality depends on the reuse purpose, 
and this kind of initiative has been pursued in 5 main sites across 
different geographies as Best Practice, with the plan to continue 
into 3 other main sites and additional smaller sites in 2025. 
For frames production in Italy, many initiatives have been 
implemented over the last years such as a wastewater treatment 
system in its Rovereto plant, which has reduced liquid waste 
generated by barrelling and galvanic processes by an estimated 
2,700  m3 of waste per year. In 2024, a wastewater treatment 
system was implemented in Sedico for a potential 9,000 tons/year. 
Other important initiatives have been implemented in its 
Agordo plant, including: the installation of an evaporator system 
with an estimated yearly reduction of 80 tons of waste; a metal 
tank regeneration project that decreased waste by around 1,000 
tanks per year and optimization of the wastewater treatment 
system, adding an intermediate tank to improve the saturation 
of the treatment and, consequently, decreased the final waste 
produced. 
The development of production processes that can allow the 
Company to eliminate water rinsing steps or reduce the current 
withdrawals is another area of focus. A clear stream for 
investigating a more sustainable approach is ongoing. At the 
same time the focus in 2024 has been on reducing the current 
withdrawal through a standardized approach for efficiency 
across Regions involving different departments. The plan is to 
continue in 2025 and define Corporate guidelines for the more 
water intense processes.
Rx manufacturing process
The Company has also focused on hard-coating applications, 
with many sites increasing the water reuse rate. 
In addition, a water cascading project in the hard-coating 
process has been completed in European Rx labs, which saves 
up to 0.5 liters per lens (representing around a 15% decrease in 
total water withdrawals in the specific process). 
In addition, continuous process optimization has led the 
Company to scale a technique for surfacing residue compaction 
of all substrates. This reduces the weight and volume of waste 
(less picking rotation, with an impact on CO2e emissions), and 
recycles water. Water is then filtered and reinjected into the 
prescription laboratory’s in-house system, following a circular 
approach.
Cooling systems
Another initiative that has been spread across the different 
regions and Business Units relates to the cooling systems using 
water for adiabatic technology, where the process can be 
‘closed’ reusing the cooling water, controlling the hardness of 
water, and drastically reducing the withdrawn portion. 
Specifically, the application in 2024 has been finalized in one big 
plant in the US and planned for 2025 in other sites, with a focus 
on North America.
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
52
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Value chain engagement
In addition to the actions implemented in its own operations, 
EssilorLuxottica monitors the risks related to water management 
along its value chain, monitoring the potential and actual 
impacts of its suppliers. Regarding water supply and wastewater, 
as part of the Responsible Sourcing audits, suppliers are 
requested to monitor and report their water and wastewater 
usage and have a wastewater treatment plant when applicable 
and relevant. For more information on the Company’s 
responsible sourcing program refer to Section  3.2 ESRS S2 – 
Workers in the Value Chain.
2.3.5
Targets and Metrics
Specific targets on water management at Group level will be set 
in due course, but for the time being, the Company tracks the 
effectiveness of its strategy through the metric related to water 
withdrawal.
EssilorLuxottica has disclosed its water footprint for many years, 
referring to the withdrawals of different sources of water 
performed by its operations sites and retail stores. The water 
withdrawn and managed within the Group’s sites and facilities 
are discharged according to local regulations, with an actual 
consumption of water along its manufacturing processes that is 
considered quantitatively not significant. A water consumption, 
in fact, could occur mainly through its restricted vaporization 
within the cooling circuits installed in the operations sites, and 
other minor leakages/evaporation. For this reason, the Group 
considers the water discharges as practically equal to the 
withdrawals, continuing to disclose the monitored information 
on water withdrawals split by source. 
2024
2023 (restated)
2023 (disclosed)
TOTAL WATER WITHDRAWAL (M3)
11,108,868
11,401,007
10,780,279
Third-party water
9,397,726
9,542,984
9,542,984
Natural water
1,711,141
1,858,023
1,237,295
Surface water
2,243
3,248
3,248
Ground water
1,708,898
1,854,775
1,234,047
The 2023 data above reported has been restated to include the 
Ground Water withdrawals for geothermal purposes. This 
specific withdrawals are also reported in 2024 and have been 
considerably reduced, leading to an overall decrease in the 
Group’s water withdrawal compared to last year despite the 
addition of new Operations sites recently built, whose activity 
ramped up in 2024. As mentioned above, the water withdrawn 
in the manufacturing processes is almost entirely discharged 
taking care of its reintroduction in nature or grid. For additional 
information on the methodology of data collection and 
estimation 
please 
refer to the Methodology Note in 
Section 5 Methodology Note.
As with climate change, EssilorLuxottica responds to the 
increasing demand for environmental transparency and in 2024 
submitted the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Water 
questionnaire, receiving a ‘B’ score.
In 2024, EssilorLuxottica’s water intensity per euro of revenue 
amounted to 0.42 litre/€. The revenue used to calculate the water 
intensity ratio is €26,508  million as mentioned in the financial 
statement in Chapter  5, Section  5.1.1 Consolidated Statement 
of Profit or Loss of the 2024 Universal Registration Document
2.4
ESRS E5 – Resource Use and Circular Economy
2.4.1
Introduction
EssilorLuxottica’s climate commitment is deeply intertwined 
with its circularity goals along its own operations and the value 
chain, leveraging its sustainable innovation expertise across its 
materials, processes, products and services. One of the most 
important drivers of EssilorLuxottica’s sustainability efforts is the 
idea that sustainability, products and services go hand-in-hand, 
right from the development phase. Aligned with its Eyes on 
Circularity pillar of the Eyes on the Planet sustainability program, 
the Company’s efforts focus on optimizing the use of resources 
while ensuring high product standards, with the objective to 
shift from fossil-based materials to bio-based and/or recycled 
materials and embed eco-design in all its innovation 
developments by end of 2025. The Group is also taking steps to 
reduce the production of waste at each step of its value chain.
This section provides an overview of policies, actions, metrics 
and, when available, targets to prevent, mitigate and remediate 
actual and potential material impacts, to address material risks 
and/or to pursue material opportunities related to resource use 
and circular economy.
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
53

--- PAGE BREAK ---

2.4.2
Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities
Material ESG 
topic
IRO name
IRO description
Policy
Target/Metric
Circular Sources, 
Products and 
Services
Use of raw material 
and natural 
resources
Excessive extraction and inefficient use of key 
resources (such as fossil based materials, metal) 
can lead to the depletion of finite natural reserves, 
contributing to environmental degradation.
•
Global 
Environment, 
Health & Safety 
Policy
•
Business 
Partners’ Code 
of Conduct
•
Sustainable 
Packaging 
Guidelines
•
Sustainable 
Point of 
Purchase (POP) 
Guidelines
•
Waste Policy
•
Material 
Recycling Policy
•
Shift from fossilbased materials 
to biobased 
and/or recycled 
materials
•
Embed ecodesign in all 
innovation 
developments 
by 2025
Developing 
alternative 
materials (to the 
benefit of the 
entire industry)
Embracing advanced technologies (e.g., 
alternative materials, reuse, increasing renewable 
and recycled content) to reduce reliance on 
traditional, finite resources can support the 
Company’s positioning as a pioneer in sustainable 
innovation. This shift allows the company to 
explore and adopt new, alternative materials that 
minimize environmental impact, increase 
production efficiencies and savings, and align with 
evolving consumer demand for more responsible 
products, ultimately affecting the broader industry, 
as these innovations can set new standards for 
sustainability and resource efficiency.
Risk of limited 
access to certain 
raw materials 
(scarcity, stringent 
regulations)
Growing global demand for key resources has 
heightened scarcity, driving up costs and 
complicating procurement processes. Additionally, 
evolving environmental regulations aimed at 
protecting natural ecosystems impose stricter 
requirements, limiting access to raw materials and 
increasing compliance costs. These challenges can 
lead to production delays, rising operational 
expenses, and diminished competitiveness.
Risk of not 
answering product 
and services 
sustainability 
expectations
Failure to meet sustainability expectations, that 
entails reducing resource outflows by designing 
products for longevity, recyclability, and reusability 
can lead to increased reputational damage, as 
consumers increasingly prefer environmentally 
responsible products, leading to loss of market 
share and reduced revenue.
Waste 
Management 
Waste Generation
Damages related to environmental degradation 
(environmental pollution and reduction of 
ecosystem services) due to improper waste 
management (e.g., dispersal or abandonment 
of waste).
•
Increase 
the waste 
valorization rate 
by 10 points 
in the next 
five years 
compared 
to 2024
Risk of lack of 
compliance with 
waste regulation
Improper management of waste poses risks for 
organizations, including increased costs and 
reputational damage. Non-compliance with 
environmental regulations can lead to fines 
and penalties.
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
54
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

2.4.3
Policies
EssilorLuxottica is at the forefront of innovation and its sustainability expertise embraces the Group’s products and services to meet 
the Company’s environmental commitments without compromising excellence and quality. Resource use and circular economy topics 
are incorporated in several existing policies and guidelines, listed below, whereas the Group’s circular economy policy will be 
developed in due course. 
Environment, 
Health & 
Safety Policy
It articulates EssilorLuxottica’s commitment to eliminate or minimize all 
possible impacts on the Environment and on the Health & Safety deriving 
from its operations, products and stores and lays out guiding efforts, such as:
•
promoting the development of sustainable products incorporating 
Environment, Health & Safety topics along the value chain eliminate 
or reduce the use of substances that are potentially hazardous for the 
people and the environment, promoting the use of suitable alternatives;
•
minimizing the environmental impact of its operations, products and 
services, by using natural resources (such as water) and raw materials 
rationally;
•
reducing the production of waste by facilitating reuse and recycling 
of materials.
EHS
Own 
operations
Public
Business 
Partners’ 
Code of 
Conduct
It sets out the Group expectations toward its Business Partners in terms 
of, among others, environment by addressing climate change, managing 
responsibly natural resources, protecting local biodiversity, preventing 
pollution and deforestation. More specifically, EssilorLuxottica seeks 
Business Partners to optimize the use of resources to lower its product 
environmental footprint across the supply chain.
Compliance/
Procurement 
(Responsible 
Sourcing)
Upstream 
and 
downstream
Public
Sustainable 
Packaging 
Guidelines
It sets the Group’s commitment to incorporate a ‘design for sustainability’ 
concept in the ideation phase. This mainly consists in the elimination of 
unnecessary layers and creation of new concepts, such as ‘easy to 
disassemble’ and ‘foldable design’ to optimize space needed for 
shipments, and end-of-life management for packaging components. 
It also states that the choice of materials should be oriented toward 
renewable and/or recycled sources (i.e., responsible sourcing of materials).
Product & 
Operations 
Sustainability
Upstream 
and own 
operations
Internal
Sustainable 
Point of 
Purchase 
(POP) 
Guidelines
It gives guidelines for new POP development, such as:
•
incorporating a ‘design for sustainability’ concept and responsible 
sourcing of materials, same as packaging guidelines;
•
selecting manufacturing suppliers that are resources and energy 
efficient;
•
considering efficient transportation, with network optimization 
and modal shift.
Product & 
Operations 
Sustainability
Upstream 
and own 
operations
Internal
Document
Main content
Function
Scope
Availability
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
55

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Document
Main content
Function
Scope
Availability
Waste Policy
The objective of this document is to regulate management methods 
and parties involved in relation to waste management, including:
•
Guidelines and key principles for managing and prioritizing waste 
streams safely, in accordance with environmental, legal, and technical 
responsibilities, from point of generation to end treatment, for 
EssilorLuxottica sites;
•
Requirements for proper storage, identification, transportation, 
treatment by waste service providers, audits and traceability.
EHS
Upstream 
and own 
operations
Internal
Material 
Recycling 
Policy
The objective of this document is to regulate management methods 
and parties involved in relation to material recycling, including:
•
Guidelines and key principles to assess a material recycling solution, 
externalized with a third party, for EHS teams, sourcing entities or any 
people or entities within EssilorLuxottica, involved in the definition and 
launch of a new material recycling solution or a new material recycling 
stream;
•
Orientation to efficiently design an acceptable recycling stream and list 
some limitations.
EHS
Upstream 
and own 
operations
Internal
A cross-functional task force, including Product & Operations 
Sustainability, Procurement, Risk Management, EHS, Logistics, 
Supply 
Chain 
and 
Corporate 
Sustainability 
functions 
coordinates the deployment of fundamental workstreams, 
spreads internal policies, eases collaborative projects, supports 
key decision-making, ensures program progress and facilitates 
alignment between functions. The task force’s work is regularly 
reviewed by the Chief Operating Officer. In addition, dedicated 
working groups are in place with R&D to synergize and review 
tests of responsible materials, with Point of Purchase (POP) to 
review projects and their application of guidelines and a new 
working group dedicated to single use plastic has been 
initiated.
2.4.4
Key Products and Materials
The Group develops eyecare and eyewear solutions that meet 
the world’s growing vision care demands and changing 
consumer lifestyles. EssilorLuxottica’s key products are the 
following:
•
Eyewear: Optical and sun frames of both house and licensed 
brands. From an R&D perspective, every frame is the result 
of an ongoing process that anticipates and interprets the 
needs, desires and aspirations of consumers, while 
embracing a commitment to eco-design and exiting fossil 
dependence. The three main technologies are acetate, 
injected and metal, which in 2024 accounted respectively for 
27%, 46% and 27% of frames. To pursue the goal of 
switching from fossil to bio-based and/or recycled sources in 
line with its sustainability commitment, EssilorLuxottica has 
been 
introducing 
bio-based 
and 
recycled 
materials, 
including those coming from internal recycling opportunities. 
In 2024, the Group further expanded the permeation of 
responsible materials in its eyewear collections and, as a 
result, 28% of active assortment is made with responsible 
materials for frames and plano lenses. Considering only 
collections launched in 2024 such permeation goes up to 43%.
•
Lenses: EssilorLuxottica produces lenses that are finished 
and semi-finished or plano. In general, finished lenses are 
produced for simple eyesight corrections such as myopia, 
hyperopia and some astigmatisms. Semi-finished lenses are 
intended 
for 
more 
complex 
corrections 
including 
presbyopia, while plano lenses without corrective power are 
typically used for sunglasses. Circularity approach is different 
between plano lenses and prescription lenses:
•
Plano lenses: plastic and mineral lenses for sun 
application. 
The 
circularity 
approach 
focuses 
on 
introducing 
bio-based 
and 
or 
recycled 
materials. 
Responsible materials for lenses include: bio-based nylon 
and bio-circular polycarbonate.
•
Prescription lenses: as a medical device, the inclusion of 
bio-based and/or recycled materials requires significant 
developments. For this reason, as of now, circularity focus 
is on the production process, specifically on waste 
reduction initiatives.
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
56
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

•
Eyeglass cases and accessories: the acquisition of Giorgio 
Fedon & Figli S.p.A represented a step forward in 
EssilorLuxottica’s vertical integration strategy, as well as an 
important asset for the Group to pursue its sustainability 
commitment. It allowed the Company to invest in the 
circularity of its packaging materials, mostly represented by 
paper and synthetic fabrics, with the progressive elimination 
or conversion of single-use plastic elements and alternative 
material explorations. The Group established a dedicated 
team of designers and researchers working at its Innovation 
Center in Alpago (Italy), where research activities in ecodesign, innovative manufacturing technologies, new concept 
engineering and feature integration are carried out to offer 
all industry players and consumers accessories synonymous 
with exclusivity, refined elegance, environmental attention 
and best user experience. 78% of new packaging kits 
introduced in 2024 have been developed according to 
packaging sustainability guidelines. More specifically, levers 
implemented were: use of certified recycled materials, single 
use plastic limitation, weight reduction and foldable 
solutions.
EssilorLuxottica considers the quality and durability of its 
products as essential values for the success of the Company. For 
prescription lenses, the average wearing period is two  years, 
covered by a legal warranty. However, it should be noted that, 
as medical devices, the durability of prescription lenses is 
closely tied to the evolution of the prescription, which is the 
primary driver for product replacement. As for eyewear, the 
average wearing period is also two  years, covered by a legal 
warranty. That said, the lifespan of a frame can often be much 
longer, and EssilorLuxottica implements several initiatives to 
extend the life of its products. These initiatives include:
•
a) 
providing consumers with guidelines on how to 
properly wear, clean, and protect their glasses;
•
b) 
offering spare parts for at least three  years after 
production discontinuation, allowing for the replacement of 
key components (e.g., screws, end tips, nose pads);
•
c) 
providing repair and renewal services as outlined 
above.
For more information regarding the Group’s products, please 
refer to Chapter 1 of the 2024 Universal Registration Document.
2.4.5
Actions and Resources
From product and design innovation to reimagining the 
consumer experience and establishing new business models, 
EssilorLuxottica teams constantly question how the Company 
can better serve its consumers. The activities span from 
researching and sourcing new materials shifting from fossil to 
bio-based and/or recycled materials across several products 
categories, with a special focus on limiting single use plastic. 
Additional efforts are also on the application of eco-design and 
application of business practices such as increasing internal 
recycling capabilities and implementing circular services to 
extend product life or give products a second life. 
Materials
Materials for eyewear, plano and demo lenses application
Over the last few years, bio-based and recycled materials have 
been introduced into EssilorLuxottica’s portfolio of plastic raw 
materials for eyewear frames and lenses applications. 
In 2024, the Group further increased permeation of alternative 
materials compared to traditional ones, notably introducing bio 
and/or recycled acetate, bio and recycled nylon in the acetate 
and injected frame manufacturing technologies respectively and 
bio-nylon and bio-circular polycarbonate for plano lenses. In 
2024 the Group launched a pilot project to introduce the first 
demo lenses made with Recycled Polymethyl Methacrylate 
(RPMMA) having a recycled content of over 80%. As a result, 
considering plastic materials for frames and lenses, alternative 
materials represented 29% of total sourced materials.
Further steps have been done on metal technology; in 2024 the 
Company worked both with its suppliers of raw precious metals, 
used for plating treatments, and its suppliers of plated metals 
components, to ensure that any precious solution is 100% 
derived from recycled and certified sources. In 2024 the 
Company engaged its suppliers of raw precious metals, 
covering 75% of purchasing spending in Italy and China, and its 
suppliers of plated metals components covering 97% (China 
and Italy). The Company is also working with its non-precious 
metals suppliers, asking them to transparently declare and 
attest recycled content inside different metals alloys, according 
to ISO  14021, aiming at a continuous monitoring and 
improvements of recycled content over years.
Materials for packaging application
In line with internal sustainability packaging guidelines a focus 
has been placed on the recycled version of paper and synthetic 
fabrics. Focusing on these materials, in 2024 Fedon’s plants in 
Shenzhen (China) and Alpago (Italy) have been awarded the 
Global Recycled Standard Certification (GRS) for fabrics; 
additionally, Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certification for 
paper has been extended also to Fedon’s plant in China 
(already gained for Italy and Romania). These certifications 
underscore Fedon’s commitment to responsible sourcing and 
manufacturing, allowing the brand to offer certified accessories 
that uphold high social and environmental standards as well as 
trace and attest recycled content inside its products. 
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
57

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Materials for Point of Purchase application
In 2024, a comprehensive assessment was conducted on Point of 
Purchase (POP), permanent and seasonal tools for wholesale and 
permanent ones for retail, collecting data related to more than 
1.2 million units per year representing around 99% of total units.
Following the issuance of POP sustainability guidelines, PVC has 
been reduced to less than 1% of all tools managed, certified 
paper was used for over 99% of all seasonal tools, and recycled 
materials were applied on over 70% of all permanent tools.
Single Use Plastic
With reference to single use plastic, the Group is constantly 
working to play its part on limiting the amount of plastic 
designed and conceived to be used only one time for a specific 
purpose. In this context, in 2024 the following priorities have 
been set to limit and gradually avoid the consumption of single 
use plastic items in the Group: 
•
creating a solid and clear definition of single use plastic 
based on existing regulations. EssilorLuxottica, in line with 
current regulations, defines as single use plastic the items 
made of plastic, specifically placed on the market to be used 
once and for the purpose of which it was designed, thus not 
intended for repeated use and lacking of durability to be 
repurposed;
•
structuring a specific governance to manage the topic. 
Several internal departments are involved on the assessment 
of single use plastic in use in the Group and on the 
identification of initiatives to reduce it;
•
defining the methodology for assessing single-use plastic 
usage over the years. The Company identified three main 
streams considered as single use: 
•
B2C, Packaging & other products that constitutes a sales 
unit designed/conceived for the final user or consumer at 
the point of retail,
•
B2B, packaging for materials, components, partially 
manufactured or finished goods and other products 
intended for distribution and handling from manufacturer 
to manufacturer and/or other intermediaries,
•
internal consumption, packaging & other products 
received from suppliers intended exclusively for internal 
company use in environments like plants, point of sales, 
offices, common areas, service spaces;
•
setting priorities and strategies for single-use plastic 
reduction. EssilorLuxottica distinguish different levers to 
tackle single use plastic items. The first priority is given to the 
potential elimination of the item considered as single use, 
while the other levers refer to the reusability of the item or its 
replacement with alternative materials. Moreover, the 
Company recognize the importance of acting primarily on 
B2C single use plastic items to relieve their disposal 
management by final consumers.
In 2024, following the above-mentioned activities carried out, a 
Group-level assessment was conducted on single-use plastic 
items, with a focus on the single-use plastic packaging. 
Since years EssilorLuxottica is working on the deployment of 
actions to reduce single-use plastic packaging related to some 
product categories. Focusing on B2C stream, the Group is 
advancing on eyewear packaging with the following initiatives: 
the replacement of plastic sleeves protecting frames temples 
with a paper alternative; the transition from plastic bags and 
cloth envelopes to paper ones; and the elimination of plastic 
sun lens stickers. In the packaging of Apparel, Footwear, and 
Accessories for the Oakley and Costa brands, nearly all plastic 
bags have been replaced with paper alternatives. Moreover, on 
logistic packaging many initiatives targeting plastic reduction 
have been implemented (like the plastic void fill and plastic tape 
substitution with a paper alternative). 
All these actions contributed to a reduction of more than 150 tons 
of Single Use Plastic packaging compared to the previous year.
The Company is constantly working on the identification of new 
initiatives to reduce the usage of single use plastic items on all 
the streams to play its role on tackling this important 
environmental issue.
Application of circular design
EssilorLuxottica aims to create circular products from the very 
start of the innovation process using eco-design principles. This 
approach and Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs) are part of the 
Company’s wider vision of how to integrate sustainability into 
business and operational practices. The Group developed in 
2021 a proprietary eco-design tool, Sustainability Assessment 
Methodology (SAM), for its lens division, whose main pillars 
were circularity capability, resources, and process efficiency 
along with low-impact raw materials to support R&D teams in 
having 
an 
assessment 
while 
designing 
new 
products/
technologies. With the ambition of continuously learning and 
improving, EssilorLuxottica has introduced in 2024 along with 
the first version (SAM1.0) a new proprietary tool (SAM2.0) to 
strengthen the quantitative assessment of environmental and 
social impact aligned with the Product Environmental Footprint 
(PEF) methodology. Also, SAM2.0 has been extended in terms 
of perimeter of analysis to frames. In 2024, within the scope of 
eyewear and lenses, 22% of innovation projects launched on the 
market were assessed either with SAM1.0 or SAM2.0. 
To strengthen sustainability and eco-design assessment of new 
products and R&D activities, EssilorLuxottica is also focusing on 
bringing transparency and clarity across its entire supply chain. 
Quantitative impact assessment is the backbone of Group 
sustainability and eco-design assessment, thus for this reason, 
the Company invested in LCAs with its partners, pursuant to 
ISO  14040 and ISO  14044 international standards, to quantify 
environmental impact of the most used upstream materials for 
frames, lenses and packaging.
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
58
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Circular business practices
Circular processes
The Company continues carrying on projects to valorize its 
internal material waste. The Tristar plant in China and Agordo 
plant in Italy have been recycling nylon plastic scraps (since 2023 
and 2022 respectively) derived from the injection manufacturing 
of frames into black raw nylon. At the same time, Campinas 
plant in Brazil is recycling nylon, through an external partner. All 
plants involved in the process achieved the International 
Sustainability & Carbon Certification (ISCC) Plus for the Circular 
Economy covering 2024-2025. The third-party certification 
ensures, through the mass balance approach, the traceability of 
the material throughout all production phases: from waste 
collection to injection molding. The recycled granule maintains 
the high standards of quality and performance of the original 
and this makes it suitable to be injected again to produce new 
frames. In 2024, together the plants, have recycled more than 95 
tons of nylon. New tests are being carried out to extend 
recycling to other nylon grades for the next year. 
In 2024, a new project has been launched aiming at increasing 
new recycling opportunities. The Group leveraged on additional 
nylon waste, accurately sorted and collected in the Agordo 
plant, transforming it thanks to an external partner and creating 
a plastic display for in-store purposes. In 2024 more than 4 tons 
of nylon scraps have been recycled, producing more than 
20,000 
displays 
that 
have 
been 
distributed 
across 
EssilorLuxottica’s stores in EMEA, both mono-brand (Ray-Ban 
stores and Oakley stores) and retail (Sunglasshut, Solaris, 
Salmoiraghi & Viganò and Grand Vision). This initiative is part of 
a broader in-store sustainability roadmap that includes major 
investments in its brick-and-mortar activities related to energy 
efficiency, building less and better, circularity in the use of 
materials, waste management and the implementation of a 
three-year plan from 2023 aimed at obtaining WELL certification 
for 400 Salmoiraghi  &  Viganò, LensCrafters and Sunglass  Hut 
stores in Europe and the US, starting from Salmoiraghi & Viganò 
in Italy. In 2024, 100 stores applied for the certification and, 
among those, one Salmoiraghi & Viganò store gained the WELL 
certification at gold level.
Circular Services
EssilorLuxottica also applies circularity principles by engaging 
and involving its consumers in different phases of the product 
lifecycle through two different levers: use for longer and second 
life activation. 
Firstly, to use products for longer, the Group is focusing its 
efforts to:
•
provide guidelines on how to properly wear, protect and 
clean glasses to ensure their maintenance;
•
offer in-store repair and renewal services, through frames 
adjustment & fitting or thanks to the replacement of spare 
parts; in this regard, wholesale customers and final 
consumers can order original spare parts to replace 
damaged ones. 
In this context, EssilorLuxottica has been testing various 
initiatives to then expand them to larger scale. 
Indeed, between June and October 2023, Ray-Ban launched a 
brand specific initiative, the ‘Repair & Care Hub’. The in-store 
available service encouraged customers to take care of their 
eyewear products by entrusting them to repair experts. It 
started as an itinerant corner that became permanent in 2024 in 
11 key stores in EMEA and 1 store in US. Overall, more than 
3.850 customers used the Ray-Ban service in 2024. 
Similarly, in April 2024, Salmoiraghi & Viganò launched ‘Officina 
Rinnovo’. This model area was designed to test Repair & 
Renewal Service in a multibrand banner for the first time. 
‘Officina Rinnovo’ was piloted in two stores in Milan, for three 
weeks per stores, with dedicated services supported by 
technicians from EssilorLuxottica plants. Salmoiraghi  &  Viganò 
has also won the Retail Awards 2024 in the category Best ESG & 
Sustainability Project with this project. 
In 2025, the Group will further expand the Ray-Ban ‘Repair & 
Care Hub’ in additional stores and will assess the permanent 
availability of the ‘Officina Rinnovo’ service. 
The second lever is second life activation. It consists in 
collecting post-consumer products in store for reusing or 
recycling the materials they are made of. Since April  2023, 
Salmoiraghi & Viganò has offered consumers the opportunity to 
bring unused sunglasses and prescription glasses from any 
brand back to the store, free of charge. The Company takes 
responsibility for the revaluation of materials or donates them 
for educational purposes in the optometry field. This service is 
now available in all Salmoiraghi & Viganò stores. In April 2024, 
the project was also expanded to GrandVision Italy. Similarly, in 
France, since the end of April  2024, the service was offered 
through independent opticians with a first pilot. The objective is 
to leverage these pilot initiatives to evaluate the extension of 
the service and reach a larger number of consumers.
In addition, the Synoptik retail banner launched the ‘Vision as a 
Service’ spectacle subscription program in Denmark and 
Sweden in 2019. To maximize the product lifetime of returned 
spectacles from this service, the banner launched the PreLoved 
concept in 2022 by which spectacles are sold second-hand. 
Additionally, from November 2024, returned spectacles that are 
not sellable under PreLoved, are either used for educational 
purposes at optometry schools or disassembled into plastic, 
metal, and glass components.
To manage eyewear end-of-life at scale, the Company is also 
building a dedicated area inside the plant in Rovereto (Italy), to 
be equipped with machinery programmed to properly 
disassemble eyewear frames, identify materials and recycle 
them. This investment is the result of two years of research of 
innovative technologies to be able to manage the variety in 
terms of types of materials and product shapes. The plant has 
applied to obtain the environmental authorizations for waste 
management and transformation. This is an important step to 
integrate eyewear products’ end of life management, increasing 
knowledge and expertise in this field.
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
59

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Collaborations
EssilorLuxottica internal experts are also engaging with an entire 
ecosystem of companies, start-ups, think tanks, academic 
institutions and government bodies to build innovative solutions 
that require collaborative actions. For example, EssilorLuxottica, 
along with other multinationals, jointly launched the first 
international research chair devoted to circular economy at 
ESSEC Business School, called the ‘Global Circular Economy 
Chair’ in 2021. With the aim of training future circular economy 
leaders, the Chair mainly focuses on launching experimental 
collaborative projects, raising awareness on the circular 
economy and producing fundamental research to accelerate the 
transition toward a circular economy. 
In addition, EssilorLuxottica has partnered with different players 
in the industry to further develop responsible materials while 
maintaining the exact same performance as traditional ones. 
Thanks to the collaboration agreement signed in 2021 with 
Mazzucchelli 1849, the Group has further boosted the 
development of alternative types of acetate, aiming at 
increasing sustainable features of namely bio-based and 
recycled acetate. Thanks to the joint efforts of Mazzucchelli and 
EssilorLuxottica, different innovation levers have been activated, 
aimed at reducing the environmental impact of Mazzuchelli’s 
plants and processes, in terms of energy efficiency and waste 
reduction through internal scraps recovery and valorization; 
additional efforts have been made to improve materials 
performances, testing new acetate formulations to offer more 
responsible eyewear products while maintaining high quality 
and performance.
Furthermore, R&D and Engineering teams are always looking to 
extend their supply sources of secondary or innovative raw 
materials by working with multiple industries, thus reducing the 
use of virgin or fossil-based materials. Multiple projects are 
currently being developed with suppliers. For example, also 
in  2024, EssilorLuxottica  partnered with Bureo to offer to 
market  the Costa Del Mar Untangled collection  with frames 
made with 97% to 100%  NetPlus®  recycled fishing nets. 
Discarded fishing nets are collected from commercial fishing 
ports in South America and Bureo recycles the nets into raw 
material pellet form called NetPlus®. The recycled raw material 
is then used to produce recycled frames by EssilorLuxottica, 
combining them with mineral glass lenses, avoiding the use of 
new plastic materials and providing superior lens clarity and 
durability.
Waste
Waste management is a crucial pillar of EssilorLuxottica’s 
commitment to reducing its environmental footprint. It 
encompasses several initiatives to effectively reduce waste 
generation from industrial operations and contribute to a more 
circular economy. These include: the reduction of raw material 
loss; policies to recover, reuse and recycle the residual parts and 
scraps during production activities and processes; discarded 
consumables; and wasted chemicals throughout production 
processes and packaging.
The Company completed a waste generation analysis of its main 
manufacturing plants, distribution centers, and laboratories to 
determine the type and weight of waste generated and improve 
the identification of waste management solutions with a focus 
on the potential for material recycling and energy recovery. It is 
updated annually and was extended to new plants in 2024 (53 
sites covering nearly half of Rx lenses and more than 60% of 
mass production lens volumes). Frames manufacturing plants 
integration in the mapping has started in 2024 and is on-going. 
The table below reports the main type of waste at EssilorLuxottica (including lenses, frames and non-manufacturing activities). 
These wastes are treated mostly by third-party waste service suppliers.
Waste type
%
Description
Main waste treatment
Liquid waste
33%
Mostly wastewater, solvent, acid and base from manufacturing 
processes 
Physico-chemical treatments
Plastic
28%
Mostly scrap lenses, process residues, packaging and films plastics Energy recovery or recycling
Others
25%
Mostly general industrial waste, absorbents, filter materials, drums, 
sludge and personal protective equipment
All treatment types align 
with the Group’s Policies
Cardboard
11%
Mostly consumable packaging and semi-finished packaging
Recycling
Metal
3%
Mostly process losses and alloys
Recycling
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
60
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The Group focuses on new industrial solutions to reduce inhouse scraps to limit waste and the use of plastic as much as 
possible. Waste reduction is mainly achieved through the 
improvement of manufacturing yields, mainly reducing the 
waste intensity of the manufacturing and Operations processes 
(quality management, continuous improvement, eco-design, 
production processes optimization and reusing opportunities). 
Examples are listed below:
•
the Slim Fit project for lenses production aims to decrease 
input material that, consequently, reduces waste generation 
during the lens production process. To achieve this goal, the 
design for standard raw blank lenses has been optimized to 
obtain the same final high-quality lens. The rollout of the 
Slim Fit project in the Group’s biggest Rx labs around the 
world has accelerated, allowing to avoid more than 2100 tons 
of waste in 2024;
•
continuous process optimization has led the Company to 
scale compacting for the surfacing residues of all substrates. 
This reduces the weight and volume of waste (less picking 
rotation, with an impact on CO2e), and recycles water. Water 
is then filtered and reinjected into the prescription 
laboratory’s in-house system, following a circular approach. 
Three new equipment items were added in 2024;
•
additional waste management initiatives are also ongoing 
with partners like Mazzucchelli and several recycling 
initiatives are taking place locally, including one in Mexico, 
contributing to the economic development of local 
communities. In 2024, the SOFI plant sent 55 tons of waste, 
mostly made of plastics (production consumables) to a small 
recycling company, employing local communities. They turn 
that waste into ready-to-use raw materials, sold to other 
companies in the country, producing final items like sandals, 
crates or insulating materials. Part of the revenues supports 
the activity of the Index association, which helps local workers 
and their families, in educational and health programs (access 
to medicine, kindergarten, dental care, etc.);
•
specifically concerning plastic recycling, the Company has 
been investigating different options to recycle the swarf 
resulting from the surfacing of Rx lenses. Some studies are 
on going with third parties and the University Research 
Center to identify a solid process for recycling, to allow more 
options for circular applications;
•
in 2022, EssilorLuxottica launched its first waste expertise 
training session, for employees who contribute to reducing 
the Group’s waste footprint. Following this successful pilot, 
waste training was deployed in North America for all relevant 
activities. A Waste & Circularity category in the Group internal 
‘Operation Best Practices Portal’ has been created in 2024.
EssilorLuxottica’s 
manufacturing 
flexibility 
and 
improved 
demand forecasting capabilities are also key to the reduction of 
waste in its plants. Over the years, it has introduced a retroplanning approach for the creation and launch of each eyewear 
collection, allowing it to better plan production volumes and 
avoid manufacturing more units than needed.
In more recent years, the Company has also invested in the 
continuous improvement of manufacturing processes to further 
reduce its environmental impact, such as the installation of 
evaporator systems and wastewater treatment systems, as 
presented in Section  2.3 ESRS  E3 – Water and Marine 
Resources.
Another main initiative largely adopted, specifically in North 
America, is the plastic waste valorization with energy recovery, 
with use of the downstream product as a raw material for the 
cement industry, thereby closing the loop and recycling the 
resulted outcome in a circular way, turning it in a new product.
2.4.6
Targets and Metrics
As recalled in the Eyes on Circularity pillar of the Company’s 
Eyes on the Planet sustainability program launched in 2021, 
EssilorLuxottica’s goal is to shift from fossil-based materials to 
bio-based and/or recycled materials and embed eco-design in 
all its innovation developments by 2025. To do so, different 
areas of intervention and associated targets have been defined 
or are being defined, as explained below.
The objective of ‘Shifting from fossil-based materials to biobased and/or recycled materials’, is global and mostly pertains 
to the upstream part of the Company’s value chain related to 
sourcing alternative materials and to operations for the 
recycling of industrial scraps. From a category standpoint, this 
target refers to the eyewear and plano lenses category where it 
is possible to introduce bio-based and/or recycled materials 
always guaranteeing the same excellence and quality as well as 
the best vision experience. With regard to prescription lenses, 
being a medical device, it is quite challenging to include biobased and/or recycled materials. For this reason, for 
prescription lenses the circularity focus is on the production 
process. In 2024, 22% of bio-materials and 7% of recycled 
materials were sourced in the plastic category of materials for 
frames, plano and demo lenses.
With reference to the target of embedding eco-design, 
EssilorLuxottica’s 
objective 
is 
to 
conduct 
quantitative 
assessments of 100% of new product innovations that will be 
brought to market in its core business, namely prescription 
lenses and eyewear, by 2025. Innovation teams will rely on the 
Sustainability Assessment Methodology (SAM) tool. This 
process enables decision-making and direction-setting from the 
design phase to reduce the environmental and societal impact 
of products. This approach is part of a circular improvement 
framework for quantifying impacts and identifying possible 
levers toward increased circularity for materials, processes or 
value chain, as well as new areas for progress. Among these 
areas of progress, assessing the impacts of materials used in its 
products from the ideation stage allows the Group to guide its 
choices toward more responsible materials that strike the best 
balance between social and environmental impacts for its 
consumers 
and 
populations 
of 
countries 
in 
which 
EssilorLuxottica operates. In 2024, within the SAM scope, 22% of 
eyewear and lens innovation projects were assessed.
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
61

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Regarding waste, EssilorLuxottica has quantified a waste 
valorization target, calculated as the proportion of waste that is 
being sent to waste service suppliers for their final treatment, 
either for energy recovery or material recycling streams. This 
objective encourages local entities to search for new ways of 
treatment but also decreases the quantity of waste which is 
being sent to non-valorization streams, including landfill or 
incineration without energy recovery. The target is to increase 
this valorization rate by 10 points from 2024 baseline over the 
next five  years. The increase in the valorization rate helps to 
contribute to lower the use of fossil resources, when waste is 
used as alternative combustible to fuel or gas (e.g., swarf sent to 
cement factories) or recycled (e.g., polycarbonate lens scrap in 
mass production). The Group is also monitoring the grams of 
waste per good unit produced metric, with a target of 
continuous improvement YoY.
The table below shows the Company’s waste generation in 2024 and the evolution compared with 2023.
Waste
TOTAL WASTE GENERATED
142,160
139,121
TOTAL AMOUNT OF HAZARDOUS WASTE
47,284
53,612
Hazardous waste diverted from disposal
16,851
22,017
Hazardous waste diverted from disposal due to preparation for reuse
Hazardous waste diverted from disposal due to recycling
11,469
15,003
Hazardous waste diverted from disposal due to other recovery operations
5,381
7,014
Hazardous waste directed to disposal
30,433
31,594
Hazardous waste directed to disposal by incineration
3,601
3,020
Hazardous waste directed to disposal by landfilling
26,833
28,574
Hazardous waste directed to disposal by other disposal operations
TOTAL AMOUNT OF RADIOACTIVE WASTE
TOTAL AMOUNT OF NON HAZARDOUS WASTE
94,876
85,509
Non-hazardous waste diverted from disposal
72,444
66,304
Non-hazardous waste diverted from disposal due to preparation for reuse
Non-hazardous waste diverted from disposal due to recycling
45,928
43,805
Non-hazardous waste diverted from disposal due to other recovery operations
26,516
22,499
Non-hazardous waste directed to disposal
22,432
19,205
Non-hazardous waste directed to disposal by incineration
2,628
3,592
Non-hazardous waste directed to disposal by landfilling
19,804
15,613
Non-hazardous waste directed to disposal by other disposal operations
WASTE VALORIZED
89,295
88,321
Waste valorization rate
 
63% 
 
63% 
NON-RECYCLED WASTE
84,762
80,312
Non-recycled waste rate
 
60% 
 
58% 
2024
2023
In 2024 the total waste generated by the Group is in line with 
the previous year, despite of the integration in the reporting of 
new Operations sites recently built and that ramped up in 2024. 
In 2024, the Company focused its efforts on the reduction of 
Hazardous Waste, with a notable result compared to the 
previous year. The Group is committed to reducing the 
environmental impact of the waste generated and to increase 
the waste valorization rate, confirmed at 63% in the reporting 
year. For additional information on the methodology of data 
collection and estimation please refer to the Methodology Note 
in Section 5 Methodology Note.
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
62
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The table below shows the Company’s progress on other circularity metrics in 2024: 
Other metrics
Progress
The rates of recyclable content in products
25%
The rates of recyclable content in product packaging
A packaging recyclability assessment will be carried out in due course with a 
methodology aligned with the upcoming European regulation PPWR, which 
sets European standards on this matter.
2.5
EU Taxonomy Disclosure
Context of EU Taxonomy
The EU Taxonomy Regulation is part of the European 
Commission’s overall efforts to reach the European Green Deal 
objectives and make Europe climate-neutral by 2050. 
Published on June  22, 2020 in the Official Journal of the 
European Union and entering into force on July  12, 2020, 
Regulation (EU) no.  2020/852 – EU Taxonomy Regulation 
(hereinafter also referred to as the ‘Taxonomy’ or ‘Regulation’) 
and FAQ published in December 2024 provide a classification 
system for defining economic activities that can be considered 
environmentally sustainable, to support investment flows in a 
more sustainable economy. 
According to the Regulation, to be eligible or qualify as a 
potentially sustainable activity, an economic activity needs to be 
listed in the Delegated Act of the Regulation, contributing to at 
least one of the below six environmental objectives defined by 
Article 9 of the Regulation itself:
•
climate change mitigation; 
•
climate change adaptation; 
•
use and protection of water and marine resources; 
•
transition to a circular economy; 
•
prevention and reduction of pollution; and 
•
protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems.
To ascertain if an eligible activity is Taxonomy-aligned, the 
following Technical Screening Criteria must be met: 
•
compliance with the substantial contribution criteria to one 
environmental objective with reference to each economic 
activity identified; 
•
Do No Significant Harm (DNSH), i.e., avoiding negative 
effects on the other five environmental objectives; 
•
Respect 
Minimum 
Safeguards 
(MS), 
recognizing 
the 
importance of compliance with international principles and 
practices covering Human Rights, corruption, taxation and 
fair competition.
The Regulation defines turnover, capital expenditure (CapEx) 
and operating expenditure (OpEx) associated with the 
Taxonomy-eligible and aligned activities such as the Taxonomy 
KPIs that must be reported on. 
Following the official adoption of Article  3 of the Regulation 
(Criteria for sustainable economic activities), EssilorLuxottica has 
assessed the eligibility and alignment of its activities with the six 
environmental objectives that have been officially adopted to 
date (ref. Climate Delegated Act – Annex I and Annex II): 
climate change mitigation, climate change adaptation, the use 
and protection of water and marine resources, transition to a 
circular economy, prevention and reduction of pollution, and 
protection and restoration of biodiversity and ecosystems. For 
the last four objectives, the Group did not identified any eligible 
projects.
It is worth remembering that for these different objectives, the 
European Commission has prioritized the establishment of 
technical screening criteria for economic activities that 
potentially contribute most to environmental objectives.
The EU Taxonomy disclosure is an integral part of Group CSRD 
reporting which adopt the European Sustainability Reporting 
Standards. EU Taxonomy requirements are integrated with 
CSRD regulations ensuring the consistency of the reporting. 
Where relevant, the key performance indicators of taxonomy 
aligned CapEx and CapEx plans are referenced to the Climate 
change mitigation actions (as required by ESRS Disclosure 
Requirement E1-3) for the implementation of its transition plans. 
EssilorLuxottica’s Analysis
The analysis was carried out in compliance with the six 
environmental objectives, namely: climate change mitigation, 
climate change adaptation, the use and protection of water and 
marine resources, transition to a circular economy, prevention 
and reduction of pollution, and protection and restoration of 
biodiversity and ecosystems.
With its vertically integrated business model covering the 
design, manufacture and distribution of ophthalmic lenses, 
frames 
and 
sunglasses 
(see 
Section 
1.3 
Strategy), 
EssilorLuxottica’s core economic activities are not described in 
the current version of the regulation and are therefore not 
considered ‘eligible’ nor aligned. Consequently, for 2024 as for 
2023, the Group did not generate any eligible or aligned 
turnover with the EU Taxonomy Regulation. 
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
63

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Nevertheless, as an industry leader committed to sustainability, 
in 2021 EssilorLuxottica launched an integrated and far-sighted 
sustainability program called Eyes on the Planet that includes 
the 
Company’s 
commitments 
on 
climate 
change 
(see 
Section  2.1 ESRS  E1 – Climate Change) and circular economy 
(see Section 2.4 ESRS E5 – Resource Use and Circular Economy). 
To deploy and achieve its sustainability commitments, the 
Company has launched several initiatives and projects that can 
be considered individually as Taxonomy-eligible investments 
(CapEx) (e.g., photovoltaics, building components, mechanical 
and electrical equipment like HVAC, energy efficient lighting, 
charging stations, green vehicles or real estate IFRS  16), 
following a detailed analysis of the activities and related 
technical screening criteria listed in the Climate Delegated Act – 
Annex I and Annex II of the Regulation. 
However, it should be noted that the Group launched other 
energy saving initiatives that are not considered eligible, as 
these actions are not described in the current version of the 
Regulation. 
Disclosure of Taxonomy KPIs
Turnover KPI
As for 2023, EssilorLuxottica did not generate any turnover in 
2024 
that 
could 
be 
considered 
Taxonomy-eligible 
or 
Taxonomy-aligned. The Group turnover equals in total 
€26,508 million (€25,395 for 2023), as presented in the line item 
Revenue of the consolidated statement  of profit or  loss 
(Chapter 
5, 
Section 
5.1.1 
Consolidated 
Statement 
of Profit or Loss of the 2024 Universal Registration Document). 
OpEx KPI 
With regards to the OpEx KPI, the Group calculated a value for 
the denominator equal to €665 million (€607million for 2023, a 
difference of 9.6%) following the methodology described in 
Section  5 Methodology Note. From the evaluation of the 
denominator, results showed that the business model of the 
Group did not generate significant OpEx for the categories 
mentioned by the  Regulation. Operating expenses under the 
EU Taxonomy definition (denominator) represent less than 10% 
of total Group consolidated operating expenses, which include 
Cost of Sales and Total Operating Expenses as presented in the 
2024 consolidated financial statements (Chapter  5 of the 2024 
Universal Registration Document, Section  5.1 Consolidated 
Financial Statements). For this reason, and as for 2023, the 
Group considered the indicator not material. 
CapEx KPI 
Since the list of eligible economic activities provided by the 
Regulation does not cover the Group’s core business, its CapEx 
cannot be associated with eligible economic activities 
generating turnover. However, based on the Delegated Act – 
Annex I Article 8, § 1.1.2.2, point c, related to the purchase of 
output 
or 
individual 
measures 
from 
Taxonomy-aligned 
economic activities with the aim of reducing greenhouse 
emissions, the Group identified the following eligible activities 
that can be considered individually as Taxonomy-eligible 
investments:
•
transport 
by 
motorbikes, 
passenger 
cars 
and 
light 
commercial vehicles (Activity 6.5); 
•
renovation of existing buildings (Activity 7.2); 
•
installation, maintenance and repair of energy efficiency 
equipment (Activity 7.3); 
•
installation, maintenance and repair of charging stations for 
electric vehicles in buildings (and parking spaces attached to 
buildings) (Activity 7.4); 
•
installation, maintenance and repair of instruments and 
devices for measuring, regulating and controlling energy 
performance of buildings (Activity 7.5); 
•
installation, maintenance and repair of renewable energy 
technologies (Activity 7.6); 
•
acquisition and ownership of buildings (Activity 7.7).
CapEx related to the above activities are reported under the 
lines Additions and Business Combinations of the items 
Properties, Plant & Equipment (activity 7.2, 7.3, 7.4, 7.5, 7.6 and 
owned buildings of 7.7) and Right-of-Use Assets (activity 6.5 and 
rented buildings of 7.7) as presented in the 2024 consolidated 
financial statements (Chapter  5, Section  5.1.6 Notes  to the 
Consolidated Financial  Statements of the 2024 Universal 
Registration Document).
These activities represent part of the sustainable initiatives 
related to production sites, laboratories and stores. Analysis of 
costs associated with Group properties is based on accounting 
records 
used 
for 
the 
preparation 
of 
EssilorLuxottica 
consolidated financial statements/information. Data for directly 
managed stores was considered on a full scope (due to limited 
availability of centralized and detailed information for APAC and 
LATAM regions, the associated eligible CapEx were estimated 
based on the % weight of total CapEx by region for the activity 
7.3 installation, maintenance and repair of energy efficiency 
equipment). For production sites and laboratories, analysis was 
performed in 2024 on a full scope for frames sites and all lenses 
facilities.
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
64
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Total CapEx of the consolidated financial statement is 
€3,678 million as reported in Chapter 5 of the 2024 Registration 
Document, 
Section 
5.1.6 
Notes 
to 
the 
Consolidated 
Financial  Statements, Note  10 Goodwill and Other Intangible 
Assets, Note  11 Property, Plant and Equipment, and Note  12 
Leases. The analysis of the CapEx KPI resulted to 38.29% (2023: 
53.02%) of eligibility and 0.73% (2023: 0.67%) of alignment.
Most of the eligible CapEx derives from the inclusion of costs 
related to the Right of Use of stores and other buildings. Most 
of the aligned CapEx is driven by the increase of the renewable 
energy projects (specifically investment in Barberini), as 
described in Section 2.1 ESRS E1 – Climate Change and 2.1.5 
Actions and Resources. 
Below are the steps carried out to assess alignment with EU 
Taxonomy, starting from compliance with Minimum Safeguards.
Compliance with the Minimum Safeguards
Compliance with minimum safeguards of the EU Taxonomy is 
based 
on 
Article 
18 
of 
the 
Regulation, 
as 
well 
as 
recommendations set out in the Final Report on Minimum 
Safeguards published by the EU Platform on Sustainable 
Finance (October  2022). The report identifies four core topics 
for which compliance with minimum safeguards should be 
assessed: 
Human 
Rights, 
corruption, 
taxation 
and 
fair 
competition.
To assess the alignment of its eligible CapEx, the Group must 
evaluate if minimum safeguards are respected for the 
CapEx-related activity and, therefore, that the supplier engaged 
by the Group complies with minimum safeguards described in 
Article 18 of the Regulation. For consistency, EssilorLuxottica is 
also required to comply with minimum safeguards for its own 
operations.
In fact, ethical behavior is one of the main pillars that guide the 
way EssilorLuxottica conducts business. The Code of Ethics and 
the Business Partners’ Code of Conduct define the principles 
that apply to all EssilorLuxottica employees, contractors, 
vendors and suppliers, and represent a minimum set of 
standards that cannot be compromised, including the respect of 
Human 
Rights, 
labor 
conditions 
and 
fair 
competition. 
EssilorLuxottica’s suppliers are required to comply with these 
documents. The Group maintains a very high level of vigilance 
regarding the respect of Human Rights among its suppliers. In 
fact, EssilorLuxottica has a proactive approach in compliance 
with French Law no. 2017-399 (Devoir de Vigilance) that requires 
due diligence on the supply chain to identify risks related to 
Human Rights (Section  3.2 ESRS S2 – Workers in the Value 
Chain).
In line with its Code of Ethics and the Business Partners’ Code of 
Conduct and in accordance with international and local 
regulations, such as the Duty of Care and Sapin II Laws in 
France, the Group has established a global Anti-Bribery and 
Corruption program (see Section  4.1 ESRS G1 –  Business 
Conduct).
Tax function is in charge of monitoring and ensuring that the 
Group meets all minimum requirements related to tax laws and 
regulations, in consistency with the values of honesty and 
fairness in EssilorLuxottica’s Code of Ethics.
EssilorLuxottica is committed to complying with the rules of 
competition law within its business practices. The Company has 
a formal Competition Law Compliance Program and has 
implemented a Competition program that defines principles of 
conduct in the management of business practices and includes 
specific training activities. 
In the event of investigation, dispute, condemnation or penalty, 
the Company adopts a transparent and accountable approach, 
conducting investigations, implementing corrective actions and 
enhancing 
governance 
frameworks 
to 
prevent 
future 
occurrences. 
For this reason, EssilorLuxottica considers that it ensures 
compliance with minimum safeguards for the activities covered 
by CapEx point (c).
Alignment assessment
Below is a summary of the alignment assessment for each activity identified as eligible.
Activity 
Substantial Contribution
DNSH
Transport by motorbikes, 
passenger cars and light 
commercial vehicles (6.5)
Part of the EssilorLuxottica’s new company vehicles meet 
the substantial contribution criteria (CO2e emission rate 
lower than 50gCO2e/km) 
DNSH criterion on performing a 
dedicated climate risk assessment 
was not met for all the sites having 
cars with CO2e emission rate lower 
than 50gCO2e/km
Renovation of existing buildings 
(7.2)
Part of the EssilorLuxottica’s renovation activities meet the 
substantial contribution criteria (major renovation and/or 
reduction in primary energy demand by at least 30%)
DNSH criterion related to water, 
circular economy and pollution for 
all the sites are not met.
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
65

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Activity 
Substantial Contribution
DNSH
Installation, maintenance and 
repair of energy efficiency 
equipment (7.3)
The activities mainly included installation and replacement 
of energy efficient light sources, and the installation and 
maintenance of heating, ventilation and air-conditioning 
(HVAC). Using the references provided by an expert for 
Italy and France, some specific equipment was aligned. 
However, due to a lack of clarity on how to deal with 
countries outside EU and in a conservative approach, 
some CaPex could not be considered aligned.
Thee DNSH criteria for this activity 
requires a Climate Risk Assessment 
related to the asset on which the 
activity was performed. 
Installation, maintenance and 
repair of charging stations for 
electric vehicles in buildings 
(and parking spaces attached 
to buildings) (7.4) 
Not applicable for this activity.
All of the projects were 
implemented on sites that were 
subject to a physical climate-risk 
assessment.
Installation, maintenance and 
repair of instruments and devices 
for measuring, regulation and 
controlling energy performance 
of buildings (7.5) 
All the eligible projects (e.g., installation, maintenance and 
repair of smart meters for gas, heat, cool and electricity) 
met the substantial contribution criterion.
All of the projects were 
implemented on sites that were 
subject to a physical climate-risk 
assessment. 
Installation, maintenance and 
repair of renewable energy 
technologies (7.6)
All the eligible projects (e.g., installation, maintenance 
and repair of solar photovoltaic systems and the ancillary 
technical equipment; installation, maintenance and repair 
of thermal or electric energy storage) met the substantial 
contribution criterion.
The DNSH criteria for this activity 
required a Climate Risk Assessment 
related to the asset on which the 
activity was performed. 
Acquisition and ownership 
of buildings (7.7)(a)
The construction of new buildings in production sites 
located in relevant regions have been considered 
an eligible activity. The construction of buildings by 
EssilorLuxottica Group always follows the highest standards 
of sustainability with the aim of reducing the Group’s 
emission profile. However, due to limited documentation 
to perfectly match the certification criteria with taxonomy’s, 
the activity was considered not aligned following a 
conservative approach.
Regarding the leasing of new stores, the alignment was 
limited due to insufficient documentation for substantial 
contribution criteria, especially for stores in regions outside 
of EU where the criteria might have different legislation not 
stipulated in the EU Taxonomy, thus a conservative 
approach was taken. 
For new buildings meeting the 
Substantial contribution criteria, 
EssilorLuxottica could not assess 
some of the elements required to 
justify compliance with all the 
DNSH criteria. For the lease of 
stores, the projects were subject to 
a physical climate-risk assessment 
and adaptation plan toward the 
climate risks assessed.
(a) New building construction activities have been classified in this activity. The associate technical criteria of these projects have been analyzed as per the 
7.1 activity.
EssilorLuxottica acknowledges the challenges of aligning retail 
and lease activities with Taxonomy technical specifications, 
particularly due to the diverse nature of the retail businesses 
located within larger mall environments. Despite this, the 
Company is committed to continuously improving its alignment 
with Taxonomy standards and will actively work toward 
integrating more projects and initiatives into alignment 
frameworks in the future. 
As specified in Chapter  5 of the 2024 Registration Document, 
Section  5.1.6 Notes  to the Consolidated Financial  Statements, 
Note 26, Contingencies and Commitments, in 2024, the Group 
announced the signing of a long-term pre-letting agreement for 
its new global headquarters in Paris. The related Right-of-use 
assets and Lease liabilities will be recognized at the date on 
which this building will be made available by the lessor to the 
Company, and thus it was not included in this year’s Taxonomy 
assessment for CapEx KPI.
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
66
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Based on the assessment above, the following table shows the CapEx KPIs, with a proportion of CapEx from products or services 
associated with economic activities that qualify as environmentally sustainable under Articles 3 and 9 of the Taxonomy Regulation – 
disclosure covering FY 2024.
A. Taxonomy-eligible activities
A.1. Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned)
Transport by motorbikes, 
passenger cars and 
commercial vehicles
CCM 6.5
0.38
 
0.01% 
Y
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
 
-% 
 
 T
Transport by motorbikes, 
passenger cars and 
commercial vehicles
CCM 6.5 
and 
CCA 6.5
-% 
Y
Y
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
 
0.06% 
 
 T
Installation, maintenance 
and repair of energy 
efficiency equipment
CCM 7.3
0.44
 
0.01% 
Y
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
 
0.01% 
E
 
Installation, maintenance 
and repair of energy 
efficiency equipment
CCM 7.3 
and 
CCA 7.3
-% 
Y
Y
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
 
0.07% 
E
 
Installation, maintenance 
and repair of charging 
stations for electric 
vehicles in buildings (and 
parking spaces attached 
to buildings)
CCM 7.4 
0.19
 
0.01% 
Y
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
 
-% 
E
Installation, maintenance 
and repair of charging 
stations for electric 
vehicles in buildings (and 
parking spaces attached 
to buildings)
CCM 7.4 
and 
CCA 7.4
-% 
Y
Y
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
 
0.01% 
E
 
Installation, maintenance 
and repair of instruments 
and devices for 
measuring, regulation 
and controlling energy 
performance of buildings
CCM 7.5
0.22
 
0.01% 
Y
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
 
-% 
E
 
Installation, maintenance 
and repair of renewable 
energy technologies
CCM 7.6
24.72
 
0.67% 
Y
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
 
0.01% 
E
 
Installation, maintenance 
and repair of renewable 
energy technologies
CCM 7.6 
and 
CCA 7.6
-% 
Y
Y
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
 
0.51% 
E
 
Acquisition and 
ownership of buildings
CCM 7.7
0.99
 
0.03% 
Y
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
 
-% 
Financial year N
2024
Substantial contribution criteria
DNSH criteria (‘Does Not 
Significantly Harm’)
Economic Activities (1)
Code (2)
CapEx (3) (€ millions) 
Proportion of CapEx, year N (4)
Climate Change Mitigation (5)
Climate Change Adaptation (6)
Water (7)
Pollution (8)
Circular Economy (9)
Biodiversity (10)
Climate Change Mitigation (11)
Climate Change Adaptation (12)
Water (13)
Pollution (14)
Circular Economy (15)
Biodiversity (16)
Minimum safeguards (17)
Proportion of Taxonomy aligned 
(A.1.) or eligible (A.2.) CapEx, 
year N-1 (18)
Category enabling activity (19)
Category transitional activity (20)
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
67

--- PAGE BREAK ---

CAPEX OF ENVIRONMENTALLY 
SUSTAINABLE ACTIVITIES 
(TAXONOMY-ALIGNED) (A.1)
26.94
 
0.73% 
 
0.73% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
 
0.67% 
 
 
Of which Enabling
25.56
 
0.69% 
 
0.69% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
 
0.61% 
E
 
Of which Transitional
0.38
 
0.01% 
 
0.01% 
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
Y
 
0.06% 
 
T
A.2 Taxonomy-Eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities)
Transport by motorbikes, 
passenger cars and 
commercial vehicles
CCM 6.5
12.39
 
0.34% 
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
 
0.54% 
Renovation of existing 
buildings
CCM 7.2
9.61
 
0.26% 
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
 
-% 
Installation, maintenance 
and repair of energy 
efficiency equipment
CCM 7.3
34.65
 
0.94% 
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
 
1.45% 
Acquisition and 
ownership of buildings
CCM 7.7
1,325
 
36.02% 
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
N/
EL
 
50.37% 
CAPEX OF TAXONOMY-ELIGIBLE 
BUT NOT ENVIRONMENTALLY 
SUSTAINABLE ACTIVITIES 
(NOT TAXONOMY-ALIGNED 
ACTIVITIES) (A.2)
1,382 
37.56% 
37.56% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
52.36% 
A. CapEx OF TAXONOMY 
ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES (A.1+A.2)
1,408 
38.29% 
38.29% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
53.02% 
B. Taxonomy-non-eligible activities
CapEx of Taxonomy-non-eligible 
activities
2,270
 
61.71% 
TOTAL
3,678 
100.00% 
Financial year N
2024
Substantial contribution criteria
DNSH criteria (‘Does Not 
Significantly Harm’)
Economic Activities (1)
Code (2)
CapEx (3) (€ millions) 
Proportion of CapEx, year N (4)
Climate Change Mitigation (5)
Climate Change Adaptation (6)
Water (7)
Pollution (8)
Circular Economy (9)
Biodiversity (10)
Climate Change Mitigation (11)
Climate Change Adaptation (12)
Water (13)
Pollution (14)
Circular Economy (15)
Biodiversity (16)
Minimum safeguards (17)
Proportion of Taxonomy aligned 
(A.1.) or eligible (A.2.) CapEx, 
year N-1 (18)
Category enabling activity (19)
Category transitional activity (20)
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
68
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Row
Nuclear energy-related activities
1.
The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to research, development, demonstration and deployment 
of innovative electricity generation facilities that produce energy from nuclear processes with minimal waste from 
the fuel cycle.
NO
2.
The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction and safe operation of new nuclear installations 
to produce electricity or process heat, including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as 
hydrogen production, as well as their safety upgrades, using best available technologies.
NO
3.
The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to safe operation of existing nuclear installations that produce 
electricity or process heat, including for the purposes of district heating or industrial processes such as hydrogen 
production from nuclear energy, as well as their safety upgrades.
NO
Fossil gas-related activities
4.
The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction or operation of electricity generation facilities 
that produce electricity using fossil gaseous fuels.
NO
5.
The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment, and operation of combined heat/
cool and power generation facilities using fossil gaseous fuels. 
NO
6.
The undertaking carries out, funds or has exposures to construction, refurbishment and operation of heat generation 
facilities that produce heat/cool using fossil gaseous fuels.
NO
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
69

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Revenues Table
The table below shows the proportion of turnover from 
products or services associated with economic activities that 
qualify as environmentally sustainable under Articles 3 and 9 of 
the Taxonomy Regulation. 
EssilorLuxottica did not generate turnover for 2024 that could 
be considered Taxonomy-eligible or Taxonomy-aligned.
A. Taxonomy-eligible activities
A.1. Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned)
Turnover of environmentally 
sustainable activities (Taxonomyaligned) (A.1)
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
N
N
N
N
N
N
N
 
-% 
Of which Enabling
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
N
N
N
N
N
N
N
 
-% 
E
Of which Transitional
-% 
 
-% 
N
N
N
N
N
N
N
 
-% 
T
A.2 Taxonomy-Eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities)
Turnover of Taxonomy-eligible 
but not environmentally 
sustainable activities (not 
Taxonomy-aligned activities) (A.2)
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
A. TURNOVER OF TAXONOMY 
ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES (A.1+A.2)
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
B. Taxonomy-non-eligible activities
TURNOVER OF TAXONOMYNON-ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES
26,508 
100% 
TOTAL
26,508
100%
Financial year N
2024
Substantial contribution criteria
DNSH criteria (‘Does Not 
Significantly Harm’)
Economic Activities (1)
Code (2)
Turnover (3) (€ millions)
Proportion of Turnover, year N (4)
Climate Change Mitigation (5)
Climate Change Adaptation (6)
Water (7)
Pollution (8)
Circular Economy (9)
Biodiversity (10)
Climate Change Mitigation (11)
Climate Change Adaptation (12)
Water (13)
Pollution (14)
Circular Economy (15)
Biodiversity (16)
Minimum safeguards (17)
Proportion of Taxonomy aligned 
(A.1.) or eligible (A.2.) turnover, 
year N-1 (18)
Category enabling activity (19)
Category transitional activity (20)
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
70
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

OpEx Table
The table below shows the proportion of OpEx from products 
or services associated with economic activities that qualify as 
environmentally sustainable under Articles  3 and 9 of the 
Taxonomy Regulation. 
Operating expenses under the EU Taxonomy definition 
(denominator) represent less than 10% of Group total 
consolidated operating expenses, which include Cost of Sales 
and Total Operating Expenses as presented in the consolidated 
statement of profit or loss (see Chapter 5 of the 2024 Universal 
Registration Document, Section  5.1 Consolidated Financial 
Statements) and, as a result, the Group considered the indicator 
not material.
Financial year N
2024
Substantial contribution criteria
DNSH criteria (‘Does Not 
Significantly Harm’)
Economic Activities (1)
Code (2)
OpEx (3) (€ millions)
Proportion of OpEx, year N (4)
Climate Change Mitigation (5)
Climate Change Adaptation (6)
Water (7)
Pollution (8)
Circular Economy (9)
Biodiversity (10)
Climate Change Mitigation (11)
Climate Change Adaptation (12)
Water (13)
Pollution (14)
Circular Economy (15)
Biodiversity (16)
Minimum safeguards (17)
Proportion of Taxonomy aligned 
(A.1.) or eligible (A.2.) OpEx, year 
N-1 (18)
Category enabling activity (19)
Category transitional activity (20)
A. Taxonomy-eligible activities
A.1. Environmentally sustainable activities (Taxonomy-aligned)
OpEx of environmentally 
sustainable activities (Taxonomyaligned) (A.1)
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
N
N
N
N
N
N
N
 
-% 
Of which Enabling
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
N
N
N
N
N
N
N
 
-% 
E
Of which Transitional
-% 
 
-% 
N
N
N
N
N
N
N
 
-% 
T
A.2 Taxonomy-Eligible but not environmentally sustainable activities (not Taxonomy-aligned activities)
OpEx of Taxonomy-eligible but 
not environmentally sustainable 
activities (not Taxonomy-aligned 
activities) (A.2)
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
A. OPEX OF TAXONOMY 
ELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES (A.1+A.2)
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
 
-% 
B. Taxonomy-non-eligible activities
OPEX OF TAXONOMY-NONELIGIBLE ACTIVITIES
665 
100% 
TOTAL
665 
100% 
Sustainability Report
Environmental Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
71

--- PAGE BREAK ---

3
Social Information
3.1
ESRS S1 – The Company’s Workforce
3.1.1
Introduction
EssilorLuxottica’s success is deeply rooted in the dedication of 
its global team of over 195,000 employees, who deliver 
products of exceptional technical and stylistic quality alongside 
unmatched levels of service. This worldwide community 
embodies a distinctive expertise and DNA, aligning with the 
Company’s Mission to help people ‘see more and be more’.
To ensure the development of an inclusive and nurturing 
working culture, the Group is committed to respect and 
promote Human Rights placing particular importance on 
applicable laws, regulations and international standards, as well 
as on the prevention and remediation of material breaches of 
Human Rights and fundamental freedoms. The Code of Ethics 
sets forth the principles that apply to all EssilorLuxottica 
employees, embedding key principles and ‘golden rules’ that 
represent a minimum set of standards that cannot be 
compromised. The roll out of the internal reporting system 
SpeakUp, the audits performed on the Group’s businesses and 
the different training activities, among others, are key initiatives 
that support EssilorLuxottica’s ethical commitment toward its 
workforce.
In 2024, EssilorLuxottica reaffirmed its commitment to fostering 
a thriving, inclusive, and innovative workplace, aligning its 
people-centered approach with its Mission and business 
strategy. A key milestone was the launch of the Group Values 
initiative, which united employees worldwide under a shared 
culture, strengthening engagement and fostering a sense of 
purpose. The year also marked significant progress in Diversity, 
Equity, and Inclusion (DE&I) with the establishment of the 
Inclusion Committee and the introduction of the Global DE&I 
Policy. These initiatives reinforced the Group’s commitment to 
building a workplace where everyone feels welcome, valued, 
and empowered to reach their full potential.
A key focus in 2024 was nurturing talent through global and 
regional development programs, mentorships, international job 
rotations, and personalized coaching. These initiatives were 
enhanced by opportunities to learn directly from senior leaders, 
cultivating a culture of continuous growth and leadership 
excellence. In this sense, Leonardo, the Group’s innovative 
learning ecosystem, continued to play a pivotal role in 
professional education and knowledge-sharing. Delivering over 
9  million hours of education in up to 30 languages, it 
empowered employees, customers, and eyecare professionals 
to expand their skills and expertise, shaping the future of the 
eyewear and vision care industry.
EssilorLuxottica’s holistic approach to employee well-being was 
also reinforced in its comprehensive support systems, including 
health benefits, psychological resources, flexible working 
arrangements, and family-focused initiatives such as summer 
camps and family days. This was complemented by a 
compensation policy that ensures competitive pay, equal 
opportunities, 
and 
merit-based 
rewards. 
Employee 
shareholding 
programs 
further 
strengthened 
alignment 
between individual contributions and organizational success, 
fostering a sense of shared responsibility. 
Employee Health & Safety remained a top priority and a 
fundamental principle guiding daily operations. EssilorLuxottica 
adopted all necessary measures, consistent with international 
standards, to minimize work-related accidents, aiming for zero 
incidents. Through robust Health & Safety programs, including 
risk prevention measures, action plans, procedures, and on-site 
audits, the Group continued to ensure a safe and secure work 
environment for all employees. 
These efforts, detailed in this section, reflect the Group’s core 
belief that the unique contributions and perspectives of 
individuals are invaluable assets – enhancing its heritage and 
equipping the Company to tackle global challenges with 
strength and resilience.
Workforce composition 
EssilorLuxottica’s workforce is composed of a diverse range of 
employees and non-employees who play integral roles in its 
operations and are subject to material impacts driven by the 
company’s activities. 
As of December  31, 2024, EssilorLuxottica employed 195,428 
people worldwide, across different divisions, functions and 
locations. Considering the company’s vertically integrated 
business model, employees can be divided in three main 
groups:
•
operations employees: employees engaged in production, 
assembly, 
and 
distribution 
processes 
across 
EssilorLuxottica’s extensive network of manufacturing plants, 
Rx labs and logistics centers.
•
store 
and 
sales 
employees: 
employees 
working 
in 
EssilorLuxottica’s retail stores and wholesale distribution 
channels who are directly involved in customer engagement 
and sales.
•
corporate and administrative staff: professionals involved in 
managerial, administrative, research and development, and 
support functions that drive innovation, strategic decisions 
and operational efficiencies.
EssilorLuxottica also relies on non-employee workers, or agency 
workers. These are individuals hired and paid by an agency, 
which in turn has an agreement with the Company to recharge 
the employee’s labour cost. They are employed for specific 
projects 
or 
temporary 
assignments, 
particularly 
in 
manufacturing, supply chain activities or stores.
Sustainability Report
Social Information
72
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The tables below provide a detailed overview of the Company’s workforce, including regional and country-specific breakdowns, as 
well as employee characteristics categorized by gender, contract type, job category, and age.
Total workforce 
2024
2023
Number
%
Number
%
TOTAL WORKFORCE
206,533
 
100% 
203,272
 
100% 
Total number of employees
195,428
 
95% 
191,706
 
94% 
Total number of temporary/agency workers
11,105
 
5% 
11,566
 
6% 
Note: The figures for EssilorLuxottica workforce refers to December 31 of each year. The table reflects data excluding 2024 latest acquisitions (Heidelberg 
Engineering and Supreme). In 2024, the total workforce increased by 2%, driven primarily by higher activity in labs/plants (including the addition of new labs), 
growth in stores, and the acquisition of Washin  Optical in Japan. The slight reduction in agency workers can be attributed to the Company’s trend of 
prioritizing direct hiring throughout the year. For further information on reporting methodology and scope, please refer to Section 5 Methodology Note.
Employees breakdown by region 
2024
2023
TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES
195,428
 
100% 
191,706
 
100% 
North America
43,772
 
22% 
44,051
 
23% 
EMEA
71,781
 
37% 
70,615
 
37% 
Asia-Pacific
54,270
 
28% 
52,366
 
27% 
Latin America
25,605
 
13% 
24,674
 
13% 
Note: The figures for EssilorLuxottica workforce refers to December 31 of each year. The table reflects data excluding 2024 latest acquisitions (Heidelberg 
Engineering and Supreme). The geographical breakdown of employees is aligned with the geographical areas identified for revenue disclosure. The 
employee distribution by region remains the same as 2023 with EMEA as the most populated region. The population of Asia, Oceania is increasing due to 
the new labs and the integration of Washin  Optical Japan. For further information on reporting methodology and scope, please refer to Section  5 
Methodology Note.
Employees breakdown by country (in countries with at least 50 employees representing at least 10% of total employees)
2024
2023
TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES
195,428
 
100% 
191,706
 
100% 
United States
40,107
 
21% 
40,346
 
21% 
China
26,725
 
14% 
26,694
 
14% 
Note: The figures for EssilorLuxottica workforce refers to December 31 of each year. The table reflects data excluding 2024 latest acquisitions (Heidelberg 
Engineering and Supreme). As of December  31 2024, The Group has two countries with at least 50 employees and representing at least 10% of total 
employees. United States represents 21% of total employees and China represents 14%. For further information on reporting methodology and scope, 
please refer to Section 5 Methodology Note.
Employees breakdown by gender
2024
2023
TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES
195,428
 
100% 
191,706
 
100% 
Total number of female
117,436
 
60% 
115,196
 
60% 
Total number of male
76,125
 
39% 
74,808
 
39% 
Total number of unknown
1,827
 
1% 
1,702
 
1% 
Total number of other
40
 
-% 
-% 
Note: The figures for EssilorLuxottica workforce refers to December 31 of each year. The table reflects data excluding 2024 latest acquisitions (Heidelberg 
Engineering and Supreme). As of December 31, 2024, females represented 60% of the Group’s employees, maintaining a similar level to 2023. In 2023, the 
Group introduced a new category, ‘Unknown’, and in 2024, following the guidelines of the European directive, added ‘Other’. The ‘Unknown’ category 
includes individuals who choose not to disclose their gender, while ‘Other’ represents employees legally registered with a third, neutral, or other gender. For 
further information on reporting methodology and scope, please refer to Section 5 Methodology Note.
Sustainability Report
Social Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
73

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Employees breakdown by contract type and by gender
2024
2023
TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES
195,428
 
100% 
191,706
 
100% 
TOTAL NUMBER OF PERMANENT EMPLOYEES
153,498
 
79% 
151,292
 
79% 
of which female
92,205
 
60% 
90,998
 
60% 
of which male
60,420
 
39% 
59,560
 
39% 
of which unknown
841
 
1% 
734
 
-% 
of which other
32
 
-% 
-% 
TOTAL NUMBER OF FIXED TERM EMPLOYEES
41,930
 
21% 
40,414
 
21% 
of which female
25,231
 
60% 
24,198
 
60% 
of which male
15,705
 
37% 
15,248
 
38% 
of which unknown
986
 
2% 
968
 
2% 
of which other
8
 
-% 
-% 
of which total number of non-guaranteed hours employees
13,082
 
7% 
-% 
of which female
8,133
 
62% 
-% 
of which male
4,034
 
31% 
-% 
of which unknown
908
 
7% 
-% 
of which other
7
 
-% 
-% 
Note: The figures for EssilorLuxottica workforce refers to December 31 of each year. The table reflects data excluding 2024 latest acquisitions (Heidelberg 
Engineering and Supreme). As of December 31, 2024, employees with permanent contracts represented 79% of the Group’s workforce, maintaining a similar 
level to 2023. Females accounted for 60% of the Group’s employees and were the majority across all types of contracts. Non-guaranteed hours contracts 
(casual contracts) introduced in 2024 following the European directive, made up 7% of the total workforce, primarily in stores and operations roles. For further 
information on reporting methodology and scope, please refer to Section 5 Methodology Note.
Employees breakdown by contract type and by region 
2024
2023
TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES
195,428
 
100% 
191,706
 
100% 
TOTAL NUMBER OF PERMANENT EMPLOYEES
153,498
 
79% 
151,292
 
79% 
North America
33,660
 
22% 
34,307
 
23% 
EMEA
64,743
 
42% 
63,500
 
42% 
Asia-Pacific
31,678
 
21% 
30,392
 
20% 
Latin America
23,417
 
15% 
23,093
 
15% 
TOTAL NUMBER OF FIXED TERM EMPLOYEES
41,930
 
21% 
40,414
 
21% 
North America
10,112
 
24% 
9,744
 
24% 
EMEA
7,038
 
17% 
7,115
 
18% 
Asia-Pacific
22,592
 
54% 
21,974
 
54% 
Latin America
2,188
 
5% 
1,581
 
4% 
of which total number of non-guaranteed hours employees
13,082
 
7% 
-% 
North America
9,113
 
70% 
-% 
EMEA
561
 
4% 
-% 
Asia-Pacific
3,408
 
26% 
-% 
Latin America
-% 
-% 
Note: The figures for EssilorLuxottica workforce refers to December 31 of each year. The table reflects data excluding 2024 latest acquisitions (Heidelberg 
Engineering and Supreme). As of December 31, 2024, 79% of the Group’s employees were hired with permanent contracts, primarily in the EMEA region. 
Permanent contracts represent indeed the majority in all regions, accounting for approximately 90% of employees in both EMEA and Latin America. In North 
America, 23% of employees were hired on fixed-term contracts, while in Asia and Oceania, fixed-term contracts accounted for 42% of employees, mainly in 
operations and store roles. Non-guaranteed hours contracts were predominantly in North America, linked to a common practice in the local labor market, 
characterized by greater flexibility. These contracts are not utilized in Latin America. For further information on reporting methodology and scope, please 
refer to Section 5 Methodology Note. 
Sustainability Report
Social Information
74
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Employee turnover 
2024
2023
TOTAL DEPARTURES
29,610
25,813
Asia-Pacific
3,296
3,974
EMEA
9,111
5,168
Latin America
8,067
6,192
North America
9,136
10,479
TOTAL TURNOVER
 
20% 
 
22% 
Asia-Pacific
 
11% 
 
13% 
EMEA
 
15% 
 
16% 
Latin America
 
35% 
 
35% 
North America
 
27% 
 
31% 
of which voluntary 
 
14% 
 
16% 
Asia-Pacific
 
9% 
 
11% 
EMEA
 
11% 
 
11% 
Latin America
 
21% 
 
20% 
North America
 
21% 
 
24% 
Note: The figures for EssilorLuxottica workforce refers to December 31 of each year. The table reflects data excluding 2024 latest acquisitions (Heidelberg 
Engineering and Supreme). The turnover rate is calculated as the total number of permanent employees who left the Group during the reporting period, 
divided by the average number of permanent employees at the end of each month. Voluntary resignation refers to contract termination initiated solely by the 
employee for reasons such as career development, personal matters, compensation, termination during probation, no-show, or mutual agreement. The 
turnover analysis for 2023 excluded GrandVision, while in 2024, it includes the full scope. The turnover rate, including voluntary turnover, decreased by two 
percentage points compared to 2023. For further information on reporting methodology and scope, please refer to Section 5 Methodology Note.
Impacts, risks and opportunities related 
to the Workforce
EssilorLuxottica’s employees, as highlighted for each section in 
relation to the material topics, can be subject to material 
impacts related to working conditions, Health & Safety 
protocols, skill development, and career growth opportunities 
within the Company’s global operations, while both employees 
and non-employees can experience material impacts related to 
supply chain practices, labour standards, and ethical business 
practices and sustainability requirements. The Company’s 
commitment to these areas is evidenced in its policies on Health 
& Safety, fair labour practices, diversity and inclusion, and 
ongoing investments in workforce development and well-being. 
The identified opportunities, such as driving efficiencies through 
a diverse and inclusive environment and providing employee 
benefits, can strengthen the organization’s connection with 
global markets, fostering greater efficiency and sustainable 
growth. The various identified IROs generally relate to the entire 
workforce, with particular attention to the most vulnerable 
categories. Currently, efforts are primarily focused on promoting 
gender inclusion as a key area of action to enhance the 
Company’s profile in this regard.
The identified risks can include challenges such as a potential 
lack of attractiveness for certain scarce profiles (e.g., doctors 
and optometrists essential to supporting the retail business), 
difficulties in retaining employees (particularly among Gen Z), 
and risks related to non-compliance with working hours 
regulations. These issues could lead to reputational and 
financial consequences, adversely affect workers’ health, and 
increase the likelihood of workplace accidents. Negative 
impacts related to the workforce are also shaped by systemic 
challenges depending on the region, such as potential concerns 
around fair wage practices, limited social dialogue measures, or 
inadequate Human Rights practices, as well as global risks tied 
to the Group’s activities, including potential exposure to various 
workplace hazards.
As of today, the Group has not identified any material negative 
impacts on its workforce stemming from transition plans aimed 
at reducing environmental impacts and achieving greener, 
climate-neutral operations.
The procedure for setting targets related to managing material 
impacts, risks, and opportunities varies depending on the 
specific topic, ensuring that each area is addressed with the 
appropriate level of attention and precision. For social factors, 
the approach could involve engaging with local stakeholders 
(e.g., Social dialogue) or conducting surveys among employees 
to understand their concerns and priorities (e.g., ‘Your Voice’). 
Whenever relevant or possible, the Company commits to 
gathering internal feedback through the various communication 
channels described in the following sections. Additionally, in 
some cases, targets are specifically designed to align with 
international guidelines, best practices, or local regulations. For 
example, the Company may set targets that conform to the 
expectations outlined in global frameworks such as the United 
Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) or align with 
local laws like the Rixain law, which mandates specific gender 
equality measures in the workplace, or to pursue internal goals 
(e.g., Talent development). 
These actual and potential impacts, risks and opportunities, 
along with their management, will be explained in the course of 
the section.
Sustainability Report
Social Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
75

--- PAGE BREAK ---

3.1.2
Employee Engagement 
& Well-Being
3.1.2.1
Introduction 
EssilorLuxottica is committed to supporting its people, 
continuously enhancing their sense of well-being, while 
providing them with opportunities to learn and grow. The 
Company strongly invests in employee engagement, creating 
an environment where everyone can thrive, feel valued, 
respected, and continuously learn. A significant milestone in this 
journey was the launch of the Company’s cultural framework 
and shared values in 2024, a global initiative designed to unite 
the organization under a shared culture, in alignment with the 
Company’s Mission and business strategy.
The Company’s dedication to employee well-being is reflected 
in its holistic approach, which includes health benefits, 
psychological support, flexible working arrangements, and 
family-focused initiatives such as summer camps and family 
days. These efforts prioritize work-life balance, community 
building, and a supportive workplace environment. 
This approach is reinforced by a socially responsible and 
inclusive compensation policy that guarantees competitive pay, 
equal opportunities, and merit-based rewards. At its core is 
employee shareholding, which fosters collective responsibility, 
aligns individual and organizational goals, and offers employees 
a direct stake in the Group’s success. Through accessible coinvestment 
plans 
and 
performance-based 
rewards, 
EssilorLuxottica promotes engagement, equity, and a sense of 
shared purpose, positioning employees as key contributors to 
its mission and values.
Through its various regular internal communication and 
feedback channels, the company ensures adequate support for 
its employees, actively preventing material negative impacts 
and promptly addressing any issues that arise.
This section provides an overview of policies, actions, metrics 
and, when available, targets to prevent, mitigate and remediate 
actual and potential material impacts, to address material risks 
and/or 
to 
pursue 
material 
opportunities 
related 
to 
EssilorLuxottica’s own workforce.
3.1.2.2
Material impacts, risks, and opportunities
Material ESG 
topic
IRO name
IRO description
Policy
Target/Metric
Employee 
Engagement 
and 
Well-being
Risk of lack of 
attractiveness 
and retention 
of employees
When failing to create an appealing work 
environment, companies can experience high 
turnover rates, leading to significant costs related 
to recruiting, hiring, and training new staff. Frequent 
turnover can result in a loss of institutional knowledge 
and experience, which hinders productivity and 
disrupts team dynamics. Additionally, inadequate 
benefits, limited growth opportunities, and a negative 
workplace culture can lead to decreased employee 
morale and engagement, causing disengaged 
employees to perform at lower levels
•
Global DEI 
Policy
•
Global Policy 
on Engagement 
& Well-being
•
Global Policy 
on Employer 
Branding and 
Talent Attraction
•
Global Policy 
on Salary review
•
Number of people 
engaged in Your 
Voice and response 
rate
•
Group turnover rate 
(total and voluntary)
Sustainability Report
Social Information
76
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Employee 
Engagement 
and 
Well-being
Risk of non 
compliance 
with working 
hours 
regulations
Non-compliance with working hours regulations 
poses risks for both employees and organizations. 
Legal penalties, including fines and lawsuits from 
employees, can arise from failing to adhere to labor 
laws, resulting in costly financial repercussions. 
Additionally, excessive workloads and prolonged 
hours can lead to employee burnout, stress, and 
a decline in overall health, ultimately increasing 
absenteeism and reducing productivity.
•
Code of Ethics
•
Number of audits 
performed on 
Human Rights 
related topics 
(including working 
hours)
Potential 
inadequate 
wages 
practices
Potential inadequate wage practices can have several 
negative impacts on employees. When wages do not 
reflect the cost of living, employees may experience 
financial stress, which can lead to decreased morale 
and job satisfaction.
•
Code of Ethics
•
Group 
Compensation 
Framework
•
Global Policy 
on Salary review
•
Ensuring equity 
through pay gap 
monitoring
•
Integration of 
the Living wage 
concept into the 
salary review 
process
Granting 
employees’ 
benefits
Granting employees benefits that promote work-life 
balance presents significant opportunities for both 
the workforce and the organization. By providing 
flexible work hours, remote work options, and 
additional paid time off, organizations can 
significantly enhance job satisfaction which in turns 
translates to increased productivity, as employees 
experience reduced stress and burnout, leading 
to a more focused and motivated workforce. 
•
Global Policy 
on Engagement 
and Well-being
•
Share of remote 
working time 
globally
•
Initiatives for 
flexible work 
arrangements
Efficiencies 
related to 
promoting 
diverse and 
inclusive 
environment
Promoting a diverse and inclusive environment 
creates opportunities for increased efficiency and 
growth. Ensuring gender equality and equal pay, 
as well as employment and inclusion of persons 
with disabilities, expands the talent pool, fosters 
innovation, and enhances employee satisfaction. 
Prioritizing diversity helps the organization better 
connect with global markets, while measures against 
violence and harassment ensure a safer workplace, 
boosting engagement and reducing risks. Overall, 
these practices lead to higher productivity, better 
decision-making, and stronger financial performance.
•
Global DEI 
Policy
•
Global Antiharassment and 
discrimination 
policy
•
Number of people 
engaged in Your 
Voice and response 
rate
•
Ensuring equity 
through pay gap 
monitoring
Reinforcing 
of employee 
sense of 
commitment 
and 
engagement 
through 
employee 
shareholding
Employee shareholding programs strengthen 
commitment and engagement by aligning 
employees’ interests with the company’s 
performance. This approach fosters a sense of 
ownership and responsibility, leading to increased 
motivation, productivity, and loyalty. As shareholders, 
employees are more invested in the company’s 
success, driving their active participation in its growth 
and sustainability.
•
Group 
Compensation 
Framework
•
Number and rate 
of employees 
participating 
in company 
shareholding 
programs
Material ESG 
topic
IRO name
IRO description
Policy
Target/Metric
Sustainability Report
Social Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
77

--- PAGE BREAK ---

3.1.2.3
Policies
To ensure employee engagement and well-being, the Company 
has established a series of public and internal policies, which 
have been enhanced over the year with additional inclusivity 
principles. Aside from the Code of Ethics and SpeakUp, which 
have unique characteristics, all other policies listed below reaffirm 
the Company’s commitment to conducting its activities in full 
compliance with legal requirements at both international and 
local levels. The policies aim to safeguard Human Rights and 
promote principles established by international organizations, 
including the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and its 
related Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the United 
Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the fundamental 
conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO), and 
the OECD Guidelines. The Chief People Officer and their direct 
reports hold ultimate responsibility for ensuring the proper 
implementation of these policies. All these policies were 
developed with the support of technical experts and in 
collaboration with local HR teams to ensure compliance with local 
legislation and alignment with the needs of all regions and 
stakeholders. Internal policies are accessible to employees via the 
Company intranet or can be provided upon request to the 
Human Resources Admin.
Code of Ethics 
EssilorLuxottica’s Code of Ethics addresses key workforce well-being 
topics:
•
employee shareholding: encourages commitment and aligns 
employees’ interests with the Group’s success;
•
Well-being: promotes a healthy work-life balance, prohibits harmful 
behaviors, and supports initiatives to enhance quality of life;
•
decent working hours: ensures compliance with local laws 
on working hours, overtime, and rest periods;
•
fair remuneration: guarantees fair compensation that meets 
or exceeds legal and collective standards;
•
social benefits and security: provides adequate benefits and ensures 
compliance with local social security laws.
Compliance
Own 
operations
Public
SpeakUp 
platform + Group 
Reporting Policy 
The SpeakUp platform, guided by the Group Reporting policy, 
is available 24/7 in 19 languages and supported by hotlines in 
11 countries to report violations such as corruption, Human Rights 
issues, moral or sexual harassment, discrimination, violence at the 
workplace, labor laws, Health & Safety concerns, fraud, and more. 
The Group Reporting Policy (whistleblowing) outlines who can report 
concerns through the SpeakUp platform and how reporting can be 
done, ensuring confidentiality, protecting against retaliation, and 
supporting effective compliance management.
Compliance/
Human 
Resources
Value chain Public
Global Diversity, 
Equity & 
Inclusion Policy 
The policy outlines the Company’s principles and commitments in DE&I 
areas, which are closely linked to employee well-being and retention 
and focuses on:
•
key processes for integrating DE&I principles, including Employer 
Branding, Talent Attraction and Acquisition, Onboarding, 
Performance Management and Development, Salary Equity, 
Engagement and Well-being, Prevention of all forms of abuse, 
and Support for Parenthood and caregiving;
•
main dimensions driving the DE&I agenda, such as Gender Equality, 
Gender Identity and Sexual Orientation, Parenthood and caregiving, 
Age and Generations, Disability, Ethnicity, Religion, and Culture.
Human 
Resources
Own 
operations
Public
Global Policy 
on Engagement 
& Well-being
This policy is designed to enhance employee well-being through a 
comprehensive approach, covering areas such as healthcare, active 
lifestyle, healthy eating habits, and offering psychological assistance. 
Additionally, it prioritizes flexible working arrangements, and regular 
employee feedback through listening campaigns.
Human 
Resources
Own 
operations
Internal
Document
Key content
Function
Scope
Availability
Sustainability Report
Social Information
78
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Global Policy on 
anti-harassment 
and discrimination
This policy enforces a zero-tolerance approach to any form of unlawful 
discrimination or harassment, ensuring a safe, respectful, and inclusive 
workplace for all employees in order to improve mental and physical 
well-being. 
Human 
Resources
Own 
operations
Internal
Global Policy on 
Salary Review
This policy outlines the guidelines and procedures for the annual salary 
and promotion process. It ensures equity, transparency, and alignment 
with company goals, upholds the principles of equal pay and 
performance-based rewards through EssilorLuxottica’s 
‘OnePerformance’ framework, and promotes a merit-based culture that 
recognizes contributions and supports personal and organizational 
growth reinforcing employee retention.
Human 
Resources
Own 
operations
Internal
Global Policy 
on Employer 
Branding and 
Talent Attraction
It sets the approach to Employer Branding and Talent Attraction, aimed 
at enhancing the company’s global presence and attracting top talent 
through a unified and compelling brand. It influences both employee 
engagement and talent attraction. It ensures equity and inclusivity are 
enforced in processes and mirroring in the reputation.
Human 
Resources
Own 
operations
Internal
Document
Key content
Function
Scope
Availability
3.1.2.4
Processes for engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives
EssilorLuxottica’s Values and Cultural Framework
In 2022 EssilorLuxottica started to define the Company’s shared values representing its people and communities across the world, 
with the active participation of over 100,000 employees globally in the process. The resulting five company values were unveiled in 
January 2024 and are described below. 
Values
Description
We are pioneers, 
bringing heritage 
into the future
We’re deeply rooted in our legacy – proud of where we came from, yet always innovating and improving 
the rules of the eyewear and eyecare game. We never stop learning, nor would we want to. We see our 
search for innovative solutions as an ongoing journey, not a destination. We’re curious – keeping up with 
trends, gathering insight, and thinking about the future.
We are one, 
thanks to many
We’re united by a shared vision and made stronger by our differences. Hundreds of thousands of talented 
people across the globe are the keys to our success. We move as a team – one where everyone’s opinions 
are valuable and where diversity and inclusion are key ingredients to our culture. We want everyone to feel 
comfortable to be themselves – building each other up, playing on each other’s strengths and as a team.
We are agile, making 
the complex simple
From product design, to supply logistics, to marketing and communications – this industry is far from 
straight- forward. Our long experience allows us to deliver sophisticated solutions with impressive speed. 
We thrive in this fast-paced environment, always embracing new ways of doing things and optimizing 
wherever possible. If there’s a simpler way to achieve the same results, we’ll find it. We share often and 
actively with all our stakeholders to identify pain points and turn them into strengths.
We are passionate, 
turning inspiration 
into impact
Passion is what wakes us up every morning, and the results are what keep us going. We’re each committed 
to our role in the bigger picture, and we’re motivated by a culture of mutual trust. We have a goal-oriented 
culture and we’re driven to achieve the best results for the company and for ourselves. We take pride in our 
roles, owning our tasks and seeing ideas through from start to finish.
We care, close to all 
no matter how far
The people who come through our doors are at the core of everything we do. And that includes ensuring a 
brighter future for all – continuing our commitment to sustainable practices. We have a global reach, but we 
feel connected to our customers on a personal level – always considering how our roles and decisions affect 
the larger customer experience. This is especially true when it comes to our products. We want to make a 
positive social impact, and we work hard to reduce our environmental footprint, too.
Sustainability Report
Social Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
79

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Your Voice – Culture Insights
EssilorLuxottica’s employee listening program, Your Voice – 
Culture Insights, is an ongoing initiative that uses confidential 
and anonymous questionnaires to gather valuable insights into 
key aspects of employees’ experiences, such as sense of 
belonging, alignment with company values, workplace culture, 
and overall working environments, as well as the Group’s 
approach 
on 
environment 
and 
sustainability. 
Feedback 
collected through this program is transparently shared in 
aggregated form, highlighting strengths and areas for 
improvement, and driving the development and update of local 
and global action plans.
To ensure accessibility, the program leverages on technology, 
allowing employees to respond quickly and anonymously in 
34  languages. In 2024, more than 130,000 employees were 
involved in the listening campaign, resulting in a global 
participation rate of 78% from all regions and businesses, 
including offices, stores and industrial sites. The outcome is 
accessible to Managers and HR teams, so they can initiate team 
conversations and workshops with local employees to build 
concrete actions for improvement. The employees are informed 
and involved in co-creating action plans to improve overall 
employee experience.
Other channels
EssilorLuxottica utilizes a variety of engagement channels to 
maintain open and continuous communication with its 
employees, in alignment with the Company’s five shared values. 
These include regular updates facilitated by local HR Business 
Partners, the ‘Comitato Welfare’ (Welfare Committee) in Italy 
and the ‘Comité Social et Économique’ (CSE, Social and 
Economic Committee) in France, where monthly meetings 
provide a platform for open dialogue. Senior HR representatives 
attend these meetings, such as the Italian Welfare Director and 
his team in Italy, or the country HR Director and his team in 
France. All these processes are overseen by the Industrial 
Relations & Welfare Global Team to ensure alignment across 
the Group.
The global whistleblowing platform, SpeakUp, is also another 
important engagement channel (see Section  4.1.5.1 SpeakUp 
reporting system for more details).
3.1.2.5
Processes to remediate negative impacts 
and channels for own workers to raise 
concerns
EssilorLuxottica fosters a culture of open communication 
through its Open Door approach, underscoring the importance 
of offering employees channels to report unethical behavior, 
violations of the Code of Ethics, or breaches of other corporate 
policies related to HR and well-being. These channels are 
designed not only to highlight potential issues related to risks 
and negative impacts on employees but also to enable tailored 
remedial actions based on the specific issue and its severity. 
Employees are encouraged to raise concerns with their 
manager, HR department, or senior leadership, or alternatively, 
they can directly contact the Compliance department.
If these options are not feasible, employees can use the Group’s 
SpeakUp reporting tool, launched worldwide in 2023 (see 
Section 4.1.5.1 SpeakUp reporting system for more details). 
To address specific potential negative impacts, the Company 
implements monitoring measures for specific KPIs for example 
related to wage practices. Where necessary and feasible, 
remedial action plans are then developed, as detailed in the 
relevant Section  3.1.2.6, paragraph Equitable and Competitive 
Compensation Framework.
3.1.2.6
Actions and resources
EssilorLuxottica’s Commitment to Employee Well-Being
Employee well-being is central to the Group’s organizational 
culture, as a healthy, balanced, and engaged workforce is key to 
sustainable success. EssilorLuxottica recognizes the crucial role 
a strong welfare system plays in unifying ongoing integration 
efforts. The Company continues to align its well-being initiatives 
through global policies that support employees’ work-life 
balance. 
These 
guidelines 
are 
gradually 
adapted 
and 
implemented across different organizational contexts to ensure 
relevance and effectiveness. 
The Company focuses on key areas that enhance employee 
well-being, fostering a supportive and inclusive environment 
worldwide. These initiatives, which address diverse needs while 
underscoring the Group’s commitment to health, work-life 
balance, and community engagement, are summarized below.
•
Flexible Working Arrangements
EssilorLuxottica prioritizes work-life balance by embracing 
flexible work models tailored to individual and organizational 
needs. For office employees, the Company aims to enable 
remote work for up to 50% of the time. For industrial and 
corporate employees, initiatives like ‘Time for You’ in Italy 
provide shift flexibility and advanced scheduling to enhance 
personal time management. Retail staff benefits from wellplanned shift schedules, and part-time arrangements are 
made available when possible, to meet personal needs.
•
Listening Initiatives
To 
continuously 
improve 
its 
well-being 
programs, 
EssilorLuxottica regularly conducts surveys and listening 
initiatives such as Your Voice. These feedback mechanisms 
help identify areas for improvement and inform action plans 
that enhance the overall work environment.
Sustainability Report
Social Information
80
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

•
Healthcare
EssilorLuxottica has always placed great importance on 
offering its employees healthcare, such as health insurance 
and supplementary services, in addition to the coverage 
provided by law. These services include medical check-ups 
and discounted tariffs and are constantly updated to meet 
employees’ expectations.
•
Sport and Active Lifestyle
The Company actively promotes physical activity through 
initiatives such as corporate gym programs, subsidized 
access to fitness services, or equivalent alternatives. These 
programs encourage employees to lead an active lifestyle, 
enhancing both physical and mental health.
•
Healthy Eating
To support proper nutrition, EssilorLuxottica facilitates 
access to subsidized meals through free canteens, meal 
vouchers, or discounts at local restaurants. Additionally, the 
Company has launched initiatives like the ‘Eyes on Food’ 
program to promote healthy and sustainable eating habits at 
its canteens.
•
Psychological Support
Recognizing 
the 
importance 
of 
mental 
health, 
EssilorLuxottica offers free, anonymous, and confidential 
psychological support to employees in need. These services 
are provided through partnerships with specialized facilities, 
offering both in-person and remote assistance.
•
Summer Camps
The Group organizes a summer camp in Bibione, Italy, 
hosting over 2,500 children of employees from 26 European 
countries (with the aim of expanding the initiative to 
welcome more and more children). This initiative supports 
families during the summer school break and fosters a sense 
of belonging by connecting children in an international 
setting filled with engaging activities.
•
Family Days
In 
countries 
like 
Italy, 
the 
US, 
China, 
and 
Brazil, 
EssilorLuxottica hosts Family Days, inviting employees and 
their families to visit work sites. These events build a sense of 
pride and belonging by opening factory doors to the 
community, complemented by games and interactive 
activities.
EssilorLuxottica is also committed to promoting decent working 
time by actively monitoring working hours, overtime, and 
holiday usage through its local HR and EHS teams. The Group 
aims to ensure that employees do not exceed the maximum 
working hours and overtime limits established by local or 
national laws. These principles are clearly outlined in the Code 
of Ethics and are communicated to employees during 
recruitment or upon request. 
As a company in continuous growth, transformation and 
integration, EssilorLuxottica has renewed its commitment in 
2024 by launching an extensive mapping of welfare and wellbeing initiatives worldwide. This process aims to identify local 
best practices, processes, employee needs, and cultural 
differences. The insights gathered will help establish global 
standards that serve as a benchmark for all regions. By the end 
of this mapping exercise in 2025, harmonization targets will be 
set to align practices across different countries.
Employee volunteering
In 2024, EssilorLuxottica continued to inspire employee 
involvement 
in 
the 
impactful 
work 
of 
the 
OneSight 
EssilorLuxottica Foundation, as highlighted in Section 3.3 ESRS 
S3 – Affected Communities. Employees are encouraged to 
participate in activities that advance global eye health, such as 
contributing to vision clinics or supporting initiatives tied to 
World Sight Day. 
During the year over 5,500 employees actively volunteered in 
vision clinics or in skills-based activities providing patient care in 
their regions. This approach not only amplifies the Foundation’s 
mission to eliminate uncorrected poor vision within a generation 
but also deepens employee connection to the Company’s 
broader purpose and social impact.
Equitable and Competitive Compensation Framework
EssilorLuxottica is committed to recognizing and motivating its 
195,000 employees through a compensation policy that is both 
competitive and fair. This policy is founded on three core 
principles: pay equity for work of equal value, performancebased remuneration, and the equitable sharing of value created. 
By fostering a culture of excellence, innovation, and diversity, 
the Group enhances employee engagement, drives individual 
and collective performance, and supports talent development, 
all in service of its mission: ‘Helping people see more and be 
more’. Beyond monetary remuneration, the Group’s holistic 
approach integrates value-sharing mechanisms, social benefits, 
and welfare programs, ensuring fairness and alignment with its 
centralized governance framework. 
The Group’s compensation framework is built on four 
fundamental pillars, below described.
1. Employee Shareholding: a model for Engagement 
and Value Sharing 
Since its inception, the Group has actively involved its 
employees in its value creation, reinforcing a sense of ownership 
and alignment with its long-term vision. Every year, nearly 
100,000 employees are eligible to participate in co-investment 
plans, open to all without distinction of status, with flexible 
participation terms such as instalment payments to facilitate 
investment. In parallel, more than 9,000 employees benefit from 
performance 
share 
plans, 
ensuring 
alignment 
between 
individual efforts, the Group’s strategic objectives, and 
shareholder interests. 
Today, over 83,500 active and former employees are 
shareholders in the Group. Its ambition is to increase the 
number of employee shareholders in order to strengthen 
collective engagement and the sharing of the value created. 
Sustainability Report
Social Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
81

--- PAGE BREAK ---

To support employee shareholders, a dedicated internal service 
provides 
daily 
assistance, 
offering 
clear 
information, 
streamlining 
administrative 
procedures 
with 
financial 
institutions, and organizing financial education sessions. 
Through personalized support and a dedicated intranet 
platform, each employee shareholder can track their portfolio in 
real-time and access relevant resources. 
The Group is also committed to listening to employee 
shareholders 
by 
actively 
gathering 
their 
feedback 
to 
continuously refine its programs and strengthen the bond of 
trust and engagement. 
2. Commitment to Employee Well-being 
As explained in the previous section, the Group has long 
embedded welfare principles into its culture to enhance the 
daily lives of its employees. Through the welfare program, it 
ensures a sustainable balance between professional and 
personal life, offering concrete support at every stage of an 
employee’s journey. 
3. Performance-Based Compensation & Equity Promotion
The Group’s compensation policy is built on a culture of 
performance 
and 
fairness. 
By 
recognizing 
individual 
contributions and ensuring equitable rewards, employees are 
empowered to realize their full potential and contribute to 
collective success. 
The policy is structured around three core compensation 
processes: 
a)
Annual Salary Reviews;
b)
Annual Variable Compensation;
c)
Long-Term Incentive Plans (LTI).
a) Annual Salary Reviews 
The Group’s salary review process follows a fair and structured 
approach, 
aligned 
with 
individual 
performance, 
market 
practices, and the Group’s strategy. Compensation adjustments 
are based on objective criteria, including achieved results, 
alignment with the Group’s values and leadership model, and 
growth potential. 
This process, led by the human resources team in collaboration 
with managers, aims to recognize and reward both individual 
and collective contributions to the Company’s success. 
2024 Gender Pay Gap analysis
In line with its commitment to equity and transparency, the 
Group developed a methodology to analyse pay disparities, 
based on the fundamental principle of ‘equal pay for equal 
work’. 
This methodology follows a two-step approach: 
•
national-level 
analysis 
of 
pay 
gaps 
based 
on 
job 
classifications;
•
consolidation at the Group level to determine a global 
gender pay gap ratio. 
The 2024 gender pay gap analysis, conducted on 170,000 
employees, equal to 87% of the Group’s workforce, was based 
on annual cash compensation levels across all employees(1).
In compliance with regulatory requirements, a Group-wide ratio 
was calculated regardless of job classification, revealing a 
median gender pay gap of 2% and an average gap of 16%. 
When accounting for employee classifications within each 
country, the global median gender pay gap stands at 4% and 
the average at 6%. 
Although the data above indicate that no significant gender pay 
gaps have been identified, the Group remains committed to 
maintaining rigorous monitoring of this issue. 
Concrete actions have been implemented to proactively 
address factors that may contribute to gender pay gaps, 
including: 
•
unconscious bias training to raise awareness among teams 
and managers; 
•
dedicated support programs to assist employees, particularly 
during their return from maternity leave. 
This proactive approach also makes it possible to anticipate 
regulatory developments, notably the EU Directive on pay 
transparency. 
2024 Adequate Wage analysis 
Beyond the principles of equity and competitiveness, ensuring a 
remuneration level that covers essential needs and provides a 
decent standard of living is a strong commitment of the Group. 
According to ILO, an Adequate (Living) Wage is “a wage that 
meets the needs of a worker and their family, taking into 
account the national economic and social conditions of a 
country”.
Building on the data collected for the gender pay gap analysis, 
in 2024 a comprehensive study covered 170,000 employees, 
representing 87% of the workforce.
Using the minimum wage determined by legislation or collective 
bargaining as an adequate wage benchmark, the analysis 
confirmed that all Group employees in countries with an 
established regulatory minimum wage level, receive a base 
salary that exceeds the minimum wage and represents 99% of 
EssilorLuxottica’s workforce. When additional fixed components 
such as seniority and holiday bonuses are included, total fixed 
remuneration surpasses this threshold even further.
Sustainability Report
Social Information
82
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
(1) 
Base salary data was collected using the Group’s centralized information systems. Additional information on other fixed and variable monetary 
compensation elements was gathered through files provided by all eligible entities, enabling the creation of a comprehensive global database. Certain 
populations were excluded from the analysis, including apprentices, interns, and equivalent contracts, as well as entities whose remuneration data has 
not been consolidated at Group level yet. To ensure the reliability of results, consistency checks were carried out to confirm that all salaries were 
recorded on a full-time equivalent basis and to identify potential anomalies.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

For the remaining 1% of employees, in countries without a legal 
minimum wage, fixed remuneration was compared against a 
living wage benchmark provided by the Fair Wage Network(1).
The study identified 236 employees (0.15% of the workforce) 
whose fixed remuneration falls below the living wage 
benchmark. 
In 
most 
cases, 
this 
reflects 
the 
specific 
compensation 
structure 
in 
the 
retail 
business, 
where 
commissions represent a significant share of total earnings.
EssilorLuxottica remains committed to continuously enhancing 
its compensation practices. The Group integrates the principle 
of an adequate wage into its salary review process, ensuring 
that remuneration remains fair, competitive, and aligned with 
evolving market standards.
b) Annual Variable Compensation 
The annual variable compensation (‘MBO’) for corporate 
executive officers is based exclusively on quantitative objectives. 
For 2024, three key criteria have been defined: net earnings per 
share, revenue growth, and adjusted operating income. 
These three criteria form the Group-wide component of the 
variable pay scheme, applicable to 15,000 eligible employees. 
This Group component is further complemented by quantitative 
objectives specific to each business unit and function, ensuring 
a fair and relevant performance evaluation. 
c) Long-Term Incentive Plans (LTI) 
These plans designed to align employees with the Group’s 
strategic priorities and strengthen their long-term engagement 
are based on uniform performance criteria for all 9,000 
beneficiaries. For the 2024-2027 plan, these criteria are 
structured as follows: 
•
40% based on annualized share price growth;
•
40% based on cumulative adjusted net earnings per share;
•
20% based on corporate social responsibility (CSR) 
objectives. 
As explained in Appendix 2 of Section 4.3.2.2.3, starting in 2024 
a CSR criterion is integrated into the performance share plan.
4. Centralized Governance & Local Adaptation 
A strong governance framework is essential to ensure a 
coherent and equitable compensation policy across the Group. 
The Board of Directors defines the executive compensation 
policy, which is then rolled out to all employees, incorporating 
country-specific adaptations when necessary. 
The three key compensation processes – annual salary reviews, 
annual variable compensation, and long-term incentive plans – 
are managed at the corporate level. Corporate teams establish 
timelines, principles, and guidelines while providing the 
necessary digital tools to ensure a harmonized and efficient 
remuneration 
system. 
Local 
teams 
are 
responsible 
for 
implementing these directives while applying adjustments 
required by national regulations and market conditions. This 
balance between centralization and local flexibility ensures 
global consistency while respecting country-specific needs. 
To ensure maximum transparency, compensation and benefits 
information is communicated through multiple channels, 
including group-wide information sessions, intranet updates, 
email communications, welcome booklets, and personalized 
letters. HR teams and local managers play a key role in 
supporting 
employees 
and 
addressing 
their 
queries, 
strengthening trust in the process. 
The Group encourages an open and constructive dialogue to 
continuously improve its compensation policies. Employees can 
share their concerns and suggestions through various tools, 
including the ‘Your Voice’ engagement survey or by reaching 
out directly to HR and local managers. If necessary, these 
concerns can be escalated to higher levels of management. 
As a last resort, a confidential SpeakUp hotline allows 
employees to report sensitive issues anonymously. This 
approach ensures that every voice is heard and that appropriate 
actions are taken, fostering an equitable and respectful work 
environment. 
3.1.2.7
Targets and metrics
The Company pursues continuous improvement through 
specific targets and monitors the impact of its actions using 
defined metrics, as detailed so far and in the following section:
Welfare & Well-being
EssilorLuxottica is committed to fostering a supportive and 
inclusive work environment. By 2025, the Group aims to 
harmonize welfare and well-being practices globally, leveraging 
insights from a comprehensive mapping of initiatives, employee 
needs, and cultural differences conducted in 2024. This 
approach ensures that well-being programs are aligned with 
diverse expectations across regions while maintaining a high 
standard of support for employees worldwide.
Sustainability Report
Social Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
83
(1) 
The minimum wage refers to the wage floor established by governments, providing a baseline level of income, ensuring that workers receive a just 
compensation for their labor and can meet fundamental living costs. The living wage represents the minimum income necessary to cover the basic 
needs of workers and their families. The Group has calculated the living wage using the methodology of the Fair Wage Network to ensure a sustainable 
standard of living for employees.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Compensation
Adequate Wages: as of today 99% of employees earn above 
the legal minimum wage in countries with regulatory standards. 
The 0.15% (within the 1% of employees in countries without a 
legal minimum wage) earn below the adequate wage reference. 
This is primarily due to a different compensation structure in the 
retail business, where commissions have a significant weigh. 
EssilorLuxottica is dedicated to continuously improving its 
compensation practices to ensure fairness and sustainability. 
The concept of adequate wage is embedded in the salary 
review process, reinforcing the Group’s commitment to 
providing wages that support a decent standard of living.
Gender Pay Equity: while the available data indicate that 
significant gender pay gaps are not observed at the Group 
level, EssilorLuxottica recognizes the importance of continuous 
vigilance in maintaining pay equity. The Group-wide gender pay 
gap (overall), as of today is 2% median and 16%. The Global 
gender pay gap (by employee classification within countries) is 
4% median and 6% average. The Group is committed to 
regularly monitoring gender pay gaps and taking necessary 
measures to ensure fairness across all levels.
3.1.3
Health & Safety
3.1.3.1
Introduction
For EssilorLuxottica, guaranteeing and protecting employee 
Health & Safety is a top priority, and a common principle that 
will continue guiding daily operations. EssilorLuxottica has 
adopted all necessary measures, consistent with international 
standards and the target for reducing work-related accidents to 
a minimum.
EssilorLuxottica is committed to achieving zero work-related 
accidents through the implementation of strong Health & Safety 
programs that focus on identifying and preventing employee 
risks in the workplace. To achieve this, the Group has policies, 
action plans, procedures and on-site audits aimed at reducing 
the occurrence, frequency and severity of accidents.
3.1.3.2
Material impacts, risks and opportunities
Material ESG Topic
IRO name
IRO description
Policy 
Target/Metric
Health & Safety
Potential exposure 
to various workplace 
hazards
Inadequate Health & Safety measures can have 
a negative impact on the workforce, primarily 
through the lack of proper personal protective 
equipment (PPE) and maintenance of tools and 
equipment, leading to increase in the number of 
workplace injuries. When workers do not feel safe 
and protected, it fosters a negative workplace 
environment which can severely impact morale 
and overall job satisfaction.
•
EHS Policy
•
Zero workrelated fatality
•
Frequency rate
•
Severity rate
Sustainability Report
Social Information
84
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

3.1.3.3
Policies
Code of Ethics 
The Code of Ethics clearly states that EssilorLuxottica applies high 
occupational, Health & Safety standards to all employees, contractors and 
temporary staff working on all their sites, ensuring that operations are safe, 
and that employees, contractors and temporary staff are well protected. 
Compliance Own 
operations
Public
Environment 
Health & Safety 
Policy
The policy is based on EssilorLuxottica’s belief that safeguarding the 
Environment and the Health & Safety of its employees, contractors, agency 
workers, visitors, customers and local communities is everyone’s duty, in 
respect of their role and responsibilities inside the company. The policy 
states the importance of people’s behaviours as the main factor for the 
prevention of accidents and for the deployment of a strong safety culture 
that prevents accidents.
EHS
Own 
operations
Public 
Product 
Stewardship – 
Safety and 
Compliance of 
Chemicals, 
Materials and 
Components 
Policy
Product Stewardship is a Health & Safety and environmental management 
strategy that involves proactive management of chemicals and materials 
to design, produce, sell, or use a product. The Company, in fact, takes 
responsibility for minimizing impact on the environment and Health 
& Safety throughout all stages of the product life cycle.
The objective of this document is to outline management methods 
and parties involved in product stewardship, for instance with reference 
to compliance with chemical regulations/laws, control and management 
of risks associated with the storage, use and disposal of chemicals and 
materials in the workplace. The policy helps the facility director and/or EHS 
manager i) determine the emergency situations linked to chemicals in 
routine or non-routine tasks (people exposure, fire, spills, contamination, 
incompatible chemical reactions) and ii) ensure a Procedure with 
emergency action plan is in place. The policy is based on relevant 
standards (e.g., ISO 45001 international occupational health and safety 
standard, ISO 14001 international standard for environmental management 
systems, ISO 13485 international standard for medical devices – Quality 
management systems, ISO 9001 international standard for quality 
management systems, Globally Harmonized System of Classification 
and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS)). 
EHS
Own 
operations
Internal 
EssilorLuxottica 
Machinery 
Safety Policy 
(ELMS)
The purpose of this policy is to: 
•
harmonize the safety levels of New Machinery to ensure employees use 
it with an appropriate level of safety; 
•
propose training for employees to increase skills and competences; 
•
define guidelines that must be followed when acquiring New Version 
of Machinery;
•
define guidelines that must be followed to manage the Transfer 
of Machinery and Existing Machinery.
EHS
Own 
operations
Internal
Document
Key content
Function
Scope
Availability
Sustainability Report
Social Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
85

--- PAGE BREAK ---

3.1.3.4
Engaging with own workers 
on Health & Safety
EssilorLuxottica is strongly committed to consolidating a sense 
of belonging and safety in the workplace by implementing twoway communications on Health & Safety issues. 
It is worth mentioning the following EHS initiatives to develop 
and deploy the Company’s safety culture:
•
Safety Committees – At regional and local levels, site leaders 
involve employees in safety oriented initiatives on a regular 
basis (weekly to monthly), including observations and 
feedback on unsafe acts/unsafe conditions, with the goal to 
build actions plan to mitigate all risks observed. The 
outcomes of these initiatives could also lead the Group to 
integrate certain observations within its decision-making 
processes.
•
Behavior Based Safety Program – Present in every region in 
different sites, this program encourages employees to 
observe and identify potential risks. By so doing, the Safety 
culture within the organization is enhanced. 
•
Safety Corners -These are designated locations for posting 
information on Health & Safety matters and reporting unsafe 
or risky situations for workers.
•
Incident reporting – Safety Policies and procedures in force 
allow employees to escalate any incident related to Safety to 
the management. This ensures the Company keeps visibility 
through all the processes directly with the eyes of the 
workers. Moreover, EssilorLuxottica tracks and monitors a 
series of statistics not only related to incidents, but also 
regarding near miss and potential unsafe actions and 
conditions that constitute as leading KPIs for continuous 
improvement process.
•
Safety Bulletins – By using them, relevant information can be 
timely communicated to all workers at site level. The 
information spread is often related to specific topics raised 
by the workforce itself. 
•
Safety Days – These events represent one of the Global 
initiatives that allow the Company, annually or more often, to 
create engagement, inform and educate on safety-related 
topics, often raised by the workforce itself. 
•
Town Hall meetings – The meetings are held at regional level 
and provide the organization with some updates on 
business, performance and EHS initiatives at the global and 
local level.
Facility leaders, led by the Chief Operating Officer (COO), are 
responsible for the implementation of the above mentioned 
initiatives. In parallel, at the regional and local level, the 
Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) teams validate these 
initiatives 
and 
set 
procedures 
to 
stimulate 
employee 
engagement on these topics and ease the execution of actions 
in the entire Group. The central EHS team then oversees all 
these initiatives, ensures the application of Group guidelines 
and monitors the Company’s EHS performance.
KPIs are regularly updated on the different tools at regional or 
local level, while minutes of meetings and completion of actions 
are monitored. Where regulation may require it (e.g., in Italy), 
specific meetings, reports and agreements may be redacted in 
the relationship with Unions.
Respecting local regulations, EssilorLuxottica acknowledges the 
value of engaging with Trade Unions and sites Committees as 
an added dimension for sustainable business growth through 
participative means. The details about all the initiatives 
EssilorLuxottica deploys to engage its own workers are 
described in Section  3.1.4 Social Dialogue and Freedom 
of Association.
The Company is also actively part of Regional EHS Associations 
or Networks to participate in specific conversations related to 
Safety and Environmental topics, to overcome specific identified 
risks or to contribute to provide guidelines to local authorities. 
3.1.3.5
Preventing and managing 
Health & Safety risks to people
EssilorLuxottica is committed to ensuring healthy and safe 
working conditions, protecting its entire workforce in all its 
locations in compliance with all applicable legislation and 
regulations. Such commitment is based on the continuous 
improvement of Health & Safety policies and procedures across 
countries and on the application of company-wide safety 
procedures and vigilant preventive actions that encourage 
responsible behaviours of all workers.
The Company operates in regions where the application of 
legislation in relation to Human Rights and the environment may 
be limited or fall below international standards. In such 
situations, EssilorLuxottica strives to perform its activities in 
accordance with international standards for the protection of 
Human Rights and the environment, and implement actions 
designed to prevent negative consequences in these areas, and 
remedy them should they occur.
The Environment, Health & Safety function at EssilorLuxottica is 
responsible for the deployment of environmental management 
systems aimed at reducing environmental impact and ensuring 
the Health & Safety of all employees worldwide. In this respect, 
the increase in the number of sites or regions certified 
according to ISO 14001 and ISO 45001 will support a standard 
approach of prevention and risk/impact mitigation. The EHS 
function is responsible for the consolidation of quantitative 
inputs collected in Gensuite, a tool used by all the local EHS of 
Operations’ sites and dedicated also to the reporting of H&S 
KPIs, including observations and near misses raised by the 
workforce. 
The Company also adopts escalation tools and procedures to 
allow local workers to report potential risks or incidents. 
Consolidation of data and events allows EssilorLuxottica to 
cascade top-down, using different communication tools, all the 
actions and initiatives done to prevent reoccurrence, mitigate 
specific risks and address the raised concerns.
Sustainability Report
Social Information
86
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

EssilorLuxottica provides its employees with several channels to 
raise concerns, to detect other potential risks and be able to 
address them, ensuring the well-being of its workers. The Group 
fosters a culture of open communication through its Open Door 
approach (with HR team or relevant management) and the 
global 
SpeakUp 
tool 
(whistleblowing), 
described 
in 
Section 4.1.5.1 SpeakUp reporting system.
3.1.3.6
Actions and resources
Assessing Health & Safety risks
EssilorLuxottica assesses its risk exposure through the Group 
risk assessment process (see Section 2.1 of the 2024 Universal 
Registration Document), which incorporates the identification 
and evaluation of ESG risks such as Health & Safety, and 
through 
EssilorLuxottica 
Responsible 
Sourcing 
and 
Manufacturing program that apply to both manufacturing sites 
and suppliers globally (see Section 3.2 ESRS S2 – Workers in the 
Value Chain).
Each site assesses the overall and specific EH&S risks applying 
the Corporate and regional guidelines and adapting the 
outcome to any specific regulations that may apply at the 
regional or local level. Tracking systems are in place to follow up 
on actions plan accordingly.
Moreover, a structured approach to the EHS Risk Assessment 
and MOC (Management of Change) procedures is taken 
anytime there is a substantial change in the Operations 
processes or a new process is introduced. The Risk 
Management Systems for Operations and other mentioned 
policies address the assessment of main risks and define the 
procedure to approach them, while the processes at local level 
are implemented having the main stakeholder to drive the 
specific changes.
The Corporate EHS Team is dedicated to setting the processes 
and procedures to engage the workforce and to ease the 
execution of mentioned actions. At local and regional level, the 
Operations team in the sites, led by the COO function, are 
responsible to implement all the initiatives described, with a 
validation of the EHS local or regional contact. The EHS Team 
in  the global organization in 2024 counts more than 
300 professionals.
Every year, the Company invests in the deployment of the 
activities described and in other initiatives to improve specific 
conditions and mitigate material impacts. 
Minimizing workplace hazards
As stated in the Group EHS policy released in 2024, 
EssilorLuxottica’s approach to prevent and minimize workplace 
hazards is consistent with international standards and its target 
of reducing work-related accidents to a minimum. As such, 
throughout the past few years, several production and logistics 
sites and prescription labs have obtained the ISO  45001:2018 
Occupational Health & Safety Management certification, which 
provides a framework to identify and improve employee safety 
while preventing workplace risks. In 2024, 29 mass production 
plants, 15 lens laboratories, five logistic centers, and three 
corporate offices were certified ISO  45001:2018, covering 
approximately 28% of the Group total headcount. The Company 
will continue to increase the number of certified sites in the 
future, evolving its own certification schemes according to the 
Group and business needs. 
To achieve the target of zero work-related accidents, Health & 
Safety programs focus on identifying and preventing Health & 
Safety risks in the workplace, actively involve employees and 
include on-site audits. 
To reduce the frequency and severity of accidents in the 
workplace, multiple initiatives have been implemented at 
Corporate and Regional levels, summarized below:
•
Chemicals Management tool – To ensure full respect of the 
Group policy on Product Stewardship, a new digital solution 
is under development in order to manage compliance, 
industrial hygiene and risk assessment for any new chemicals 
introduced 
in 
the 
manufacturing 
processes, 
working 
proactively to assess, control and mitigate the risks. This also 
allows EssilorLuxottica to manage the phase out of the PFAS 
group of chemicals (so called ‘forever chemicals’). The goal is 
to rollout the new IT solution starting in 2025, to cover the 
entire scope of Operations by end of 2026.
•
PFAS program – In 2023, the Company started mapping the 
presence of PFAS in its products and processes and has 
launched projects to replace them where present. The PFAS 
program includes the entire scope of Operations sites for the 
company, being regulated by the Product Stewardship Policy 
who specifically requires the company to manage those 
components in terms of introduction and phase out. 
•
High-Risk 
Operations 
(HRO) 
referential 
– 
The 
implementation of technical referential documents is 
required for any process considered as High-Risk Operations 
for people and the environment. The program aims to map 
all HRO within the Company’s Operations sites and to 
harmonize the approach in terms of technical requirements, 
risk assessment and auditing process, mitigating and 
controlling any risks in accordance with the Group EHS 
global policy. The program started in early 2024 and is 
expected to be continued in 2025.
•
Machine Safety program – The new global standard for 
machine safety was released in 2024, targeting the 
implementation across the entire Group Operations. The 
scope of the document is to level up all the existing local 
policies according to the most stringent international 
technical standards, to allow the company to buy and design 
machines with the highest safety standards. Implementation 
has started in the Mass Production business units in 2024, 
being extended to the other Operations sites in the 
following two years.
Sustainability Report
Social Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
87

--- PAGE BREAK ---

•
Behavior Based Safety Program (BBS) – As mentioned above, 
the program encourages employees’ active participation in 
detecting any existing risks in the Operations. First launched 
in Italy, the BBS program will be progressively extended to 
the main sites of the entire organization, starting from the full 
Operations perimeter by 2026. 
•
Ergonomics Program – A team fully dedicated to Ergonomics 
strategy was created in 2023, with the aim to mitigate 
ergonomic risks in all countries and business units. The 
outcome of this program is to interject in any Operations 
processes 
(design, 
implementation, 
tasks 
execution), 
assessing the risks and implementing actions to prevent long 
term exposure or injuries. A unique Ergonomics Policy is 
being redacted and will be released in due course, creating a 
link with other policies (e.g., Machine Safety) to allow its 
implementation. 
Harmonization 
of 
ergonomic 
risk 
assessment approaches is also a focus, with the goal of 
mapping existing tools across the organization and 
identifying the most convenient to be spread across. The 
Ergonomics program aims also to map existing risks and 
identify the ones most present, to then work on a clear action 
plan of countermeasures. In 2024 main actions were pursued 
to complete Ergonomics competences mapping of the 
entire Organization, to take a first step in prioritizing the 
main ergo risks for the different Business Units and Regions, 
to define the ergo tech specs to support the preventative 
approach in the new machines design phase, as well as preassessing the different ergo digital tools in use at regional 
level to identify the best standard.
•
Reporting tools and digitalization plan – Gensuite® is the 
main database for the collection and management of key 
EHS data and KPIs related to safety and sustainability, 
enabling the Group to achieve greater data consistency and 
improve information integration. A dedicated team has been 
working to expand tool capabilities and strengthen it as the 
mandatory platform for all operations sites. For instance, a 
new feature has been implemented in 2024 to allow the sites 
working with Gensuite to create actions plans to follow up of 
any incident, near miss or compliance conditions needed to 
reduce the risk. Among the new features, AI has also been 
assessed to create more automatic reports and reduce the 
turnaround time for actions identification. 
•
Loss Prevention program – The program covers the entire 
Operations organization from fire, flooding, and other 
potential risk scenarios that would impact workers’ safety. 
A 
long-term 
agreement 
has 
been 
signed 
with 
an 
international partner for risk assessment and mitigation on 
this topic. An IT tool has been launched in 2024 to collect 
and monitor all the audit outcomes to allow the Corporate 
Team to oversee the risk mitigation actions implementation. 
In this way, compliance with the Group’s EHS Global Policy 
and its Loss Prevention procedures is guaranteed, and a plan 
up to 2028 is being identified to increase coverage rate and 
reduce the overall risk at the expected level.
•
Auditing system – The EHS auditing system is in place at 
regional level, to identify any potential noncompliance or risk 
situation. Actions plans are then created to follow up and 
their completion is measured accordingly. The audit system 
is also enhanced by the ISO certification process.
•
Health & Safety trainings – Regular awareness-raising and 
training initiatives are delivered to employees via dedicated 
e-learning modules also available on Leonardo and face-toface settings. 
3.1.3.7
Targets and metrics
EssilorLuxottica is committed to achieving zero work-related 
fatalities, while bringing major injuries to zero. The Company 
monitors Health & Safety KPIs at global, regional and local 
levels, ensuring for all these KPIs that a continuous improvement 
is pursued.
The Company ensures a two-way communication with its 
workers around Safety topics, as described before. Visibility of 
consolidated H&S data is given at central level and down to the 
single facilities where KPIs are presented and shared with 
workers, who may actively participate to identify actions through 
the initiative mentioned above.
In specific countries, regulations may require the Company to 
share and set the targets with local workforce’s representatives. 
Generally, the targets are set at Corporate level and locally 
deployed. Safety KPIs are also present in the definition of 
manufacturing site targets and short-term variable remuneration 
of the involved functions.
Targets are defined and monitored having as a reference the 
consolidation reports on H&S KPIs, led by EHS Corporate 
function. The Company yearly commits to ensure better 
performance compared to the previous year. In specific cases, 
targets of yearly improvement of certain KPIs may be set and 
applied top down.
Sustainability Report
Social Information
88
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Metrics 
Work-related fatalities, injuries and illness
2024
2023
TOTAL NUMBER OF WORK-RELATED FATALITIES
1
•
employees
1
•
agency workers
TOTAL NUMBER OF WORK-RELATED INJURIES
743
602
TOTAL NUMBER OF WORK-RELATED INJURIES WITH ABSENCE
469
326
•
employees
439
295
•
agency workers
30
31
TOTAL NUMBER OF WORK-RELATED INJURIES WITHOUT ABSENCE
274
276
•
employees
267
276
•
agency workers
7
NUMBER OF LOST DAYS DUE TO WORK-RELATED INJURIES WITH ABSENCE
14,218
7,990
•
employees
13,914
7,514
•
agency workers
304
476
TOTAL NUMBER OF CASES OF OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESSES WITH ABSENCE
16
8
•
employees
15
8
•
agency workers
1
NUMBER OF LOST DAYS DUE TO OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS
1,457
323
•
employees
1,456
323
•
agency workers
1
FREQUENCY RATE FOR WORK-RELATED INJURIES WITH ABSENCE
1.7
1.3
•
employees
1.7
1.3
•
agency workers
1.6
1.7
SEVERITY RATE FOR WORK-RELATED INJURIES WITH ABSENCE
0.1
•
employees
0.1
•
agency workers
TOTAL RECORDABLE INCIDENT RATE
2.6
2.5
•
employees
2.7
2.6
•
agency workers
1.9
1.7
The Health & Safety performance shown in the above table is 
considerably affected by the expansion of the reporting scope. 
In fact, while in the previous year the Group started to include 
the retail network in the disclosure of the Health & Safety 
indicators, in 2024 the number of countries included have 
significantly increased, including almost all Latin-American 
countries and expanding the EMEA coverage, reporting the 
information for more than 80% of the retail headcounts (vs 36% 
in 2023).
In 2024, EssilorLuxottica did not register any fatalities, 
continuing to direct its efforts on the well-being of its workers, 
recording 
relevant 
improvements 
in 
the 
Operations 
performance on Health & Safety.
3.1.4
Social Dialogue and Freedom 
of Association
3.1.4.1
Introduction
At EssilorLuxottica, fostering a culture of open dialogue, 
respect, and collaboration is fundamental to its identity. The 
Group is dedicated to upholding the principles of social 
dialogue and freedom of association, recognizing these rights 
as essential to building a thriving and sustainable work 
environment. By actively engaging with employees and their 
representatives, 
EssilorLuxottica 
creates 
pathways 
for 
participation, 
transparency, 
and 
mutual 
growth. 
This 
commitment, guided by the Company’s Code of Ethics and 
aligned with national laws and practices, ensures that 
employees’ voices are heard and respected. 
Sustainability Report
Social Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
89

--- PAGE BREAK ---

3.1.4.2
Material impacts, risks and opportunities 
Material ESG 
topic
IRO name
IRO description
Policy
Target/Metric
Social 
Dialogue and 
freedom of 
association
Potential lack of 
social dialogue 
measures
Inadequate freedom of association prevents employees 
from forming or joining unions, limiting their ability to 
advocate for their rights and interests. This results in a 
sense of isolation and disempowerment among workers. 
Additionally, the absence of works councils and 
insufficient information, consultation, and participation 
rights means employees are often excluded from 
decision-making processes that affect their working 
conditions, leading to feelings of undervaluation. 
Furthermore, ineffective collective bargaining can leave 
many workers unprotected by collective agreements, 
resulting in unequal treatment regarding wages, benefits, 
and working conditions.
Code of Ethics
•
Representation 
of employees 
through regional 
works councils 
•
Employees 
covered by 
collective 
bargaining 
3.1.4.3
Policies
Document
Key content
Function
Scope
Availability
Code of Ethics The Code of Ethics outlines EssilorLuxottica’s commitment to freedom 
of association and the right to collective bargaining, in line with national 
laws and practices. It affirms respect for employees’ rights to form and 
join unions freely and ensures no discrimination based on union 
membership, demonstrating the Group’s dedication to fair and ethical 
workplace practices.
Compliance
Own 
operations 
Public
SpeakUp 
platform + 
Group 
Reporting 
Policy 
The SpeakUp platform is guided by the Group Reporting Policy, is 
available 24/7 in 19 languages and supported by hotlines in 11 countries, 
to report violations such as corruption, Human Rights issues, collective 
bargaining and freedom of association, moral or sexual harassment, 
discrimination, violence at the workplace, labor laws, Health & Safety 
concerns, fraud, and more. The Group Reporting Policy (whistleblowing) 
outlines who can report concerns through the SpeakUp platform and 
how reporting can be done, ensuring confidentiality, protecting against 
retaliation, and supporting effective compliance management.
Compliance/
Human 
Resources
Value chain
Public
3.1.4.4
Processes for engaging with own 
workers and workers’ representatives
EssilorLuxottica attributes the highest importance to social 
dialogue and employee engagement. The Group recognizes 
that open, inclusive communication with employees and their 
representatives is essential to creating a work environment 
where collaboration, trust, and mutual respect can thrive. Social 
dialogue is seen as more than just a legal obligation, it is a 
powerful tool for sustainable business development, driven by 
active participation and the exchange of ideas between the 
Company and its workforce.
EssilorLuxottica’s Code of Ethics places a strong emphasis on 
respecting the principles of collective bargaining rights and the 
freedom of association, which is fundamental to the Group’s 
operations across the globe. The Company adheres to 
applicable national laws and practices, ensuring that all 
employees have the right to organize and engage in collective 
bargaining without fear of discrimination or retaliation. The 
Group takes a firm stance against any form of discrimination 
based on trade union membership or participation in workers’ 
associations.
The Company’s approach to social dialogue is practically 
implemented through processes managed locally by Human 
Resources (HR) representatives, ensuring that the dialogue is 
aligned with the specific needs of employees in each region. At 
regional and global levels, the Group consolidates best 
practices and shares them across countries, maintaining 
consistency while respecting local laws and cultural differences.
Sustainability Report
Social Information
90
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

In full compliance with local regulations, EssilorLuxottica places 
significant value on engaging with Factory Committees and 
Trade Unions, viewing them as essential partners for the 
Company. Through regular dialogue, the Company aims to 
align objectives, address challenges, and find solutions that 
benefit both the business and its employees. This approach is 
embedded within the Group’s corporate governance, where the 
President of the Employee Shareholders’ Association (Valoptec 
Association) holds a permanent seat on the Board of Directors, 
highlighting the importance of employee engagement at the 
highest 
levels 
of 
decision-making. 
Additionally, 
EssilorLuxottica’s 
commitment 
to 
promoting 
widespread 
ownership plans, such as the Boost program (Employees 
shareholding), further reinforces the belief that a work structure 
driven by social dialogue and shared responsibility fosters 
mutual growth.
In addition, in 2024 the Group established the EssilorLuxottica 
European Works Council (EWC), replacing the former French 
Cedie established within the former Essilor perimeter in 2000. 
To have more details please refer to Section 3.1.4.6 Actions and 
resources.
Aiming for continuous improvement, the effectiveness of these 
engagements will be increasingly monitored through a 
comprehensive set of KPIs on a global level which are currently 
under development. 
Through these practices, EssilorLuxottica reaffirms its belief that 
social dialogue, employee engagement, and respect for 
fundamental rights are key drivers of a sustainable and 
successful business. By embedding these principles into its 
operations, the Group ensures that its growth is measured not 
only by financial performance but also by the well-being and 
active participation of its workforce.
3.1.4.5
Processes to remediate negative impacts 
and channels for own workers to raise 
concerns
Grievance and Whistleblowing Mechanisms
EssilorLuxottica promotes a culture of open communication 
through its Open Door approach, emphasizing the importance 
of providing employees with avenues to report unethical 
behavior or violations of the Code of Ethics which also governs 
the approach to social dialogue, collective bargaining, and 
freedom of association. Employees are encouraged to raise 
concerns with their manager, HR department, or senior 
leadership. Alternatively, they can contact the Compliance 
department directly.
If these options are not feasible, employees can use the Group’s 
SpeakUp reporting tool, launched worldwide in 2023. This tool 
consolidates various pre-existing systems and is being gradually 
rolled out across Group entities. 
For further details on SpeakUp reporting platform and policy 
and Open-door policy please refer to Section 3.1.6.5 Processes 
to remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce 
to raise concerns.
To address the specific risk of a potential lack of social dialogue 
measures, the Global Industrial Relations function monitors key 
indicators such as the level of collective bargaining worldwide 
coverage, and engages with all the relevant stakeholders at a 
regional level. A comprehensive global industrial relations 
dashboard is currently under development with the aim to 
monitor key indicators at a global level, providing valuable 
insights into the overall workplace climate (such as the number 
and participation rate in strikes, as well as employment-related 
legal disputes). Additionally, through various committees and 
ongoing dialogue with unions, feedback is collected to refine 
and enhance the strategy year after year, as detailed in the 
following section.
3.1.4.6
Actions and resources
EssilorLuxottica’s Industrial Relations function is dedicated to 
fostering an effective and collaborative social dialogue 
framework across the Group’s global operations. To ensure 
alignment with the actual needs of employees, social dialogue is 
managed locally by HR representatives who address specific 
contexts and cultural nuances. At the regional and global levels, 
the Group consolidates and shares best practices, ensuring that 
these 
approaches 
are 
consistently 
implemented 
while 
respecting the unique characteristics of each geography.
This structured approach reflects EssilorLuxottica’s commitment 
to maintaining a dynamic, responsive, and unified engagement 
process. By adhering to shared guidelines and promoting 
transparency, the Group seeks to cultivate trust, mutual respect, 
and sustainable business growth through active dialogue with 
employees and their representatives.
Strengthening Social Dialogue through 
the European Works Council
In line with EssilorLuxottica’s commitment to fostering open and 
transparent social dialogue, the Group established a new level 
of consultation and information-sharing with the creation of the 
EssilorLuxottica European Works Council (EWC). The EWC 
Constitution Agreement, signed in Paris on February  8, 2024, 
reinforces the Group’s dedication to meaningful employee 
engagement across Europe.
The newly formed EWC represents employees from all 26 EU 
countries, with the United Kingdom as a permanent participant, 
covering over 53,000 employees in the EU and an additional 
8,000 
employees 
in 
the 
UK. 
This 
initiative 
reflects 
EssilorLuxottica’s vision of promoting inclusive dialogue and 
sustainable 
growth 
through 
ongoing 
collaboration 
with 
employee representatives.
The first plenary session of the EWC took place on 
November 27 – 29, 2024, in Agordo (Belluno, Italy), where key 
company leaders, including the Chief Human Resources Officer 
and the Chief Operating Officer, presented and discussed 
critical 
topics 
with 
employee 
representatives, 
including 
EssilorLuxottica’s global strategy, economic and financial 
performance, business and operational trends. The session 
aimed to foster a proficient, open, and transparent dialogue, 
ensuring that employees are informed about the Group’s 
strategic direction and operational developments. 
By so doing, the Group continues to build a workplace culture 
rooted in collaboration, transparency, and trust.
Sustainability Report
Social Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
91

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Introduction of the four-day working week
Starting in 2024, EssilorLuxottica implemented a landmark 
agreement signed in December  2023 with national sectoral 
organizations in Italy, introducing a new supplementary contract 
for the 2024-2026 period. This agreement marked the launch of 
the four-day working week in Italian factories, underscoring the 
Group’s commitment to employee well-being and sustainable 
growth through innovative work-life balance solutions.
The agreement introduced the possibility for factory workers to 
operate from Monday to Thursday for 20  weeks each year, 
predominantly allowing Fridays for personal time. Participation 
in this new schedule was voluntary and ensured full salary 
continuity, with the reduction in workdays primarily funded by 
the Company and only minimally by individual resources.
This initiative extended the flexible arrangements already 
available to office-based employees globally – such as the 
option to work remotely up to 50% of the time – to factory 
employees. The goal is to complete the full implementation of 
the new work schedule within two  years, ensuring that 
productivity and operational efficiency remain unaffected.
Through this agreement, EssilorLuxottica demonstrated its 
commitment to fostering social dialogue and enhancing 
employee engagement. By prioritizing work-life balance and 
flexibility, the Group reinforced its belief that sustainable 
business growth is rooted in the well-being and satisfaction of 
its workforce.
Collective Bargaining Approach 
The EssilorLuxottica Group welcomes collective bargaining 
wherever it is provided for by applicable regulations or local 
practices.
Where a national collective bargaining is in place, the Group 
promotes a further social dialogue with trade unions, where 
applicable, or with workers’ representatives in order to improve 
the conditions established by national regulations and/or 
national collective bargaining.
Typically, collective bargaining within the Group focuses on:
•
improved working conditions: it helps ensure fair wages 
(higher than the minimum wages provided for by law), 
adequate benefits, adequate working hours, and safe 
working environments;
•
employee representation: workers have a collective voice, 
enabling them to negotiate more effectively than as 
individuals;
•
stability and productivity: agreements provide clarity and 
reduce the likelihood of strikes or disruptions, promoting 
stability in the workplace.
For example, the Group’s companies in Italy apply a National 
Collective Agreement (‘Contratto collettivo Nazionale di Lavoro 
per gli addetti alle aziende che producono occhiali e articoli 
inerenti l’occhialeria’ for all industrial or Professional Solution 
business companies and ‘Contratto Collettivo Nazionale di 
lavoro per il Terziario Distribuzione e Servizi’ for the Direct to 
Consumer business). 
As in Italy, EssilorLuxottica’s employees in France are governed 
by the Collective Agreement of the Metallurgical industry. 
EssilorLuxottica’s subsidiaries in France have also signed several 
company collective agreements in relation to:
•
harassment and sexual harassment, with the appointment of 
a harassment referent in each subsidiary;
•
flexible work arrangements with a certain number of days of 
work from home, where possible;
•
annual negotiations on wages and annual increases.
3.1.4.7
Targets and metrics
As a company in continuous growth, transformation and 
integration, EssilorLuxottica has initiated a comprehensive 
global mapping initiative for social dialogue and collective 
bargaining. This effort aims to evaluate existing practices, 
processes, employee needs, and cultural differences across all 
the countries where the Group operates. By identifying local 
best practices, the initiative will help define central global 
standards to which different regions should align. Following the 
completion of this assessment, specific harmonization targets 
will be set to ensure a consistent and effective approach to 
social 
dialogue, 
collective 
bargaining 
and 
freedom 
of 
association across the Group’s global operations.
Metrics
Employee covered by collective bargaining per region
2024
TOTAL EMPLOYEES
 
39% 
North America
 
1% 
EMEA
 
59% 
Asia-Pacific
 
47% 
Latin America
 
37% 
Note: The figures for EssilorLuxottica workforce refers to December 31 of each year. In this scope, joint ventures and agency workers are excluded, focusing 
solely on employees. The baseline is consistent with other breakdowns in the section. The percentage of collective bargaining specific to the EEA area, within 
the EMEA region, amounts to 78% employee coverage.The coverage percentages by region are consistent with local practices and standards related to 
collective bargaining. For further information on reporting methodology and scope, please refer to Section 5 Methodology Note.
Sustainability Report
Social Information
92
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

3.1.4.8
Talent Management and Development
3.1.4.9
Introduction 
At the very core of EssilorLuxottica are its people, who bring its assets to life and are the key drivers of its success. Based on the 
principle that everyone’s talent makes a difference, EssilorLuxottica recruits and engages its employees with a long-term perspective 
in which education, development and equal opportunities for everyone play a core role throughout the employee’s career.
3.1.4.10
Material impacts, risks and opportunities
Material 
ESG Topic
IRO name
IRO description
Policy
Target/Metric
Talent 
Management 
and 
Development
Employees’ 
personal and 
professional 
growth
Investing in employees’ personal and 
professional growth through training and 
skills development positively impacts the 
workforce by enhancing expertise, improving 
job satisfaction, and increasing overall team 
effectiveness. Continuous learning 
opportunities empower employees to adapt 
to industry changes, take on new challenges, 
and advance their careers.
•
Code of Ethics 
•
Global DEI Policy
•
Global Policy on AntiHarassment and 
Discrimination
•
Global Policy 
on Onboarding
•
Global Policy 
on Performance 
management, 
succession plan 
and development
•
Global Procedure 
on Talent Acquisition
•
Global Policy on 
Employer Branding 
and Talent Attraction
•
Global Policy on Salary 
Review
•
Employees 
engaged in global 
talent development 
initiatives
•
Employees 
worldwide 
participating 
in performance 
and development 
programs
•
Total hours of 
education and 
training delivered
Sustainability Report
Social Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
93

--- PAGE BREAK ---

3.1.4.11
Policies
Aside from the Code of Ethics and SpeakUp, which have unique 
characteristics, all other policies listed below reaffirm the 
Company’s commitment to conducting its activities in full 
compliance with legal requirements at both international and 
local levels. The policies aim to safeguard Human Rights and 
promote principles established by international organizations, 
including the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and its 
related Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the United 
Nations 
Universal 
Declaration 
of 
Human 
Rights, 
the 
fundamental 
conventions 
of 
the 
International 
Labour 
Organization (ILO), and the OECD Guidelines. These principles 
are implemented through organizational frameworks, external 
engagement initiatives, and specific internal tools. The Chief 
People Officer and their direct reports are ultimately 
responsible for ensuring the proper implementation of these 
policies. All these policies were developed with the support of 
technical experts and in collaboration with local HR teams to 
ensure compliance with local legislation and alignment with the 
needs of all regions. Internal policies are accessible to 
employees via the company intranet or can be provided upon 
request to the HR Admin.
Document
Key content
Function
Scope
Availability
Code of Ethics 
The Company recruits and engages employees with a longterm perspective. Training, development, and equal 
opportunities for all are integral throughout employees’ 
careers. It supports growth and career advancement while 
promoting internal mobility through its dedicated platform, 
One Career, and various talent programs. The Company 
provides continuous training, education, and development 
opportunities, both on the job and through its Leonardo 
platform.
Compliance
Own 
operations
Public
Global Diversity, 
Equity & Inclusion 
Policy 
This policy outlines the Company’s principles 
and commitments in DE&I areas. Focus is on:
•
key processes for integrating DE&I principles, including 
Employer Branding, Talent Attraction and Acquisition, 
Onboarding, Performance Management and 
Development, Salary Equity, Engagement and Wellbeing, Prevention of all forms of abuse, and Support 
for Parenthood and caregiving;
•
main dimensions driving the DE&I agenda, such as 
Gender Equality, Gender Identity and Sexual Orientation, 
Parenthood and caregiving, Age and Generations, 
Disability, Ethnicity, Religion, and Culture.
Human 
Resources
Own 
operations
Public
Global Policy on 
Anti-Harassment 
and Discrimination
This policy enforces a zero-tolerance approach to any form 
of discrimination or harassment, ensuring a safe, respectful, 
and inclusive workplace for all employees.
Human 
Resources
Own 
operations
Internal
Global Policy on 
Onboarding
The policy formalizes EssilorLuxottica’s standard practices 
on Onboarding and induction.
Human 
Resources
Own 
operations
Internal
Global Policy on 
Performance 
management, 
succession plan 
and development
The policy formalizes the overall performance management 
process free of any discrimination and in the light of 
meritocracy.
Human 
Resources
Own 
operations
Internal
Global Procedure 
on Talent 
Acquisition
It formalizes an unbiased and discrimination-free talent 
acquisition process.
Human 
Resources
Own 
operations
Internal
Sustainability Report
Social Information
94
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Document
Key content
Function
Scope
Availability
Global Policy on 
Employer Branding 
and Talent 
Attraction
It sets the approach to Employer Branding and Talent 
Attraction (EBTA), aimed at enhancing the company’s global 
presence and attracting top talent through a unified and 
compelling brand. It influences both employee engagement 
and talent attraction. It ensures equity and inclusivity are 
enforced in processes and mirroring in the reputation.
Human 
Resources
Own 
operations
Internal
Global Policy on 
Salary Review
This policy outlines the guidelines and procedures for the 
annual salary and promotion process, aiming to attract, 
retain, and motivate high-performing employees. It ensures 
equity, transparency, and alignment with company goals, 
upholds the principles of equal pay and performance-based 
rewards through the ‘OnePerformance’ framework, and 
promotes a merit-based culture that recognizes 
contributions and supports personal and organizational 
growth.
Human 
Resources
Own 
operations
Internal
3.1.4.12
Processes for engaging with own 
workers and workers’ representatives
EssilorLuxottica leverages multiple engagement channels to 
ensure 
seamless 
and 
ongoing 
communication 
with 
its 
employees. Alongside regular internal communication through 
local HR Business Partners, in 2024, the first global corporate 
culture survey, Your Voice, was launched. Additionally, the 
Company continued to expand the scope of its performance 
management process, OnePerformance, designed to ensure 
regular top-down and bottom-up feedback. All of this is driven 
by its five shared values, which shape the unified corporate 
culture 
of 
the 
Group. 
In 
particular, 
EssilorLuxottica’s 
Competency Model has been developed in alignment with 
these five company values and defines the competences to 
grow and succeed at EssilorLuxottica. Complementing this, 
OnePerformance, reinforces employee engagement by allowing 
them to set clear objectives, share expectations, and deliver 
meaningful feedback. It recognizes achievements, celebrates 
individual 
contributions, 
and 
emphasizes 
development 
opportunities.
As explained in the Talent management and development 
section below, Company Values and competencies have been 
infused in all key HR processes in the organization, from 
performance management to development initiatives to 
employee listening campaigns.
3.1.4.13
Actions and resources
At EssilorLuxottica, nurturing talent remains a top priority. In 
2024, the Company continued to enhance the global 
development initiatives while broadening participation across 
regional programs, each designed to support growth and 
career advancement. For high-potential talents and successors, 
opportunities include global and regional mentorship programs, 
comprehensive leadership development initiatives, international 
job rotations, personalized leadership coaching, and capability 
assessment tools. These efforts are complemented by unique 
opportunities to learn directly from the Group’s most senior 
leaders, fostering a culture of continuous growth and leadership 
excellence.
Talent Development
EssilorLuxottica aims at creating a continuous learning culture 
and further dialing up the leadership skills rooted in its five 
corporate values (as detailed in Section 3.1.2.4 Processes for 
engaging with own workers and workers’ representatives – 
EssilorLuxottica’s 
Values 
and 
Cultural 
Framework) 
and 
associated 15 competencies that define success within the 
Company. 
The EssilorLuxottica Competency Model outlines the behaviors 
that bring these values to life: for each value, three leadership 
behaviors are identified and described in detail as they relate to 
organizational competencies. 
Drawing on both the Values and the Competency Model a 
Competency Hub has been launched on Leonardo for all 
employees: a new dedicated learning resource which helps 
employees at every level to reach their full potential and further 
develop critical competencies, in alignment with the Values. 
Other development initiatives include global and regional 
mentorship, 
leadership 
capability 
assessment 
tools 
and 
individual leadership coaching to help unlock talents’ potential 
and further boost their performance and growth, as well as 
virtual coffee chats with EssilorLuxottica leaders to learn and be 
inspired from their experience. 
In addition, future leaders are offered international job rotations 
and 6-month leadership development programs, such as 
i)  Enable, dedicated to emerging talents, ii) Empower, 
dedicated to middle manager talents, iii) Advance, dedicated to 
functional leaders. 
Committed to fostering gender balance at all levels of the 
organization as well as retention and career development, two 
programs dedicated to female talent have been launched: 
EmpowerHER for middle managers and AdvanceHER for 
functional leaders. 
Sustainability Report
Social Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
95

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Global Talent Initiatives and Programs involved over 1,500 
talents in 2024, giving global exposure to talents coming from 
all geographies, different Business Units and Functions and 
across different levels. The impact of leadership development 
goes beyond the participation to Global Programs and is 
complemented by a wide variety of local and regional initiatives.
Talent Management and Development
Since 2023, a unified and consistent approach to performance 
management – called OnePerformance – has been rolled out 
across the organization, reaching around 56,000 employees 
worldwide in 2024, while continuing to work on its expansion in 
other entities and countries. 
OnePerformance focuses on two key elements: the ‘WHAT’, 
achievements related to business goals which are cascaded 
from Company and Functional priorities, and the ‘HOW’, the 
expected behaviours as per the Competency model.
The process kicks off with the ‘Goal Setting and Continuous 
Feedback’ phase, where employees and managers agree on 
individual goals aligned with company and functional priorities. 
The process then moves to the ‘Self and Manager Evaluation’ 
phase, where employees are highly encouraged to evaluate 
their own performance to raise their self-awareness around their 
strengths and barriers and where managers provide an 
evaluation of both ‘what’ and ‘how’ dimensions.
Once the evaluation is completed, the resulting ratings are 
reviewed during the ‘Talent Discussion’ phase, where managers 
and their direct reports discuss the performance and identify 
development and career opportunities.
The calibrated ratings are shared with employees by their 
managers during the ‘Performance Conversation’ phase. This 
phase is designed to foster a constructive conversation around 
performance, 
strengths, 
improvement 
areas 
and 
career 
aspirations.
The process ends with the phase of ‘Employee sign off’ where 
employee can see the final evaluation and can sign-off the form 
to confirm reception after the feedback conversation and track 
additional comments after the ‘Performance Conversation’. This 
phase ensures full alignment and transparency.
The performance management process plays a pivotal role in 
determining pay and rewards. The Global salary review policy is 
founded on the principle of pay-for-performance, meaning 
employees 
are 
rewarded 
based 
on 
their 
individual 
achievements. This approach aims to create a powerful 
incentive for employees to excel, contribute to the company’s 
success, retain top talent, enhance motivation and engagement, 
boost productivity, and foster a culture of continuous 
improvement (please refer to Section  3.1.2.6 Actions and 
resources for more details). 
Moreover, both performance management and succession 
planning processes serve as the foundation for identifying 
development needs, which are the basis for designing effective 
skills development programs.
Indeed, a global succession plan framework has been recently 
designed and implemented to identify internal candidates who 
are ready to advance within the organization, ensuring 
continuity in the critical roles and strengthening our future 
leadership pipeline.
Succession readiness is assessed across three levels:
•
Ready Now: employees fully prepared to assume the 
incumbent’s role as it is currently structured;
•
Ready in 1-2  Years: employees who, with targeted 
development and resources, will be prepared to step into 
the incumbent’s role as it is currently structured within 
1-2 years;
•
Ready in 3-5  Years: employees who require further 
development to be prepared for the incumbent’s role as it is 
currently structured within 3-5  years. Alternatively, the role 
may need redesigning to reduce complexity for an earlier 
transition.
Specific dashboards on gender representation in performance 
evaluations and succession planning are updated and shared 
among Human Resources communities and leaders. By so 
doing, potential biases in these processes are immediately 
identified and support the development of action plans that 
ensure fairness and equal treatment across the organization.
Talent Attraction and Employer Branding
In 2024, the Group introduced its new Employer Value 
Proposition (EVP), ‘The Future Insight’, inspired by its core 
values. 
To support its EVP, EssilorLuxottica launched the Upskilling 
Program, a global training initiative aimed at enhancing HR 
expertise in employer branding and talent attraction. The 
program provides HR professionals with practical resources, 
including guides on conducting competency-based interviews, 
crafting compelling job postings, and establishing strategic, 
long-term partnerships with universities and business schools. 
This program ensures HR teams worldwide are empowered to 
align their efforts with the Group’s talent attraction strategy, 
which is built on three strategic pillars:
1. Creating a solid talent pipeline to ensure the availability of 
talent for critical roles.
2. Ensuring diversity, with a focus on building inclusive teams 
that reflect the Company’s global presence.
3. Acquiring and developing the critical skills needed for the 
Company’s success in a fast-changing environment. 
Sustainability Report
Social Information
96
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

To make the candidate journey more seamless and coherent, 
the Company has introduced several initiatives to strengthen its 
visibility and engagement with potential candidates. A carefully 
crafted LinkedIn editorial plan raises awareness about the EVP, 
while a revamped careers page reflects the Group’s values and 
highlights professional growth opportunities. Together, these 
tools ensure a consistent and compelling experience for 
candidates, positioning EssilorLuxottica as an employer of 
choice.
EssilorLuxottica continues to invest in partnerships with topranking universities and business schools worldwide, including 
MIT, Harvard, NYU, Columbia University, HEC, ESADE, Bocconi 
University, Politecnico di Milano, Fudan, PolyU Hong Kong and 
Tianjin 
Medical 
University. 
These 
collaborations 
involve 
participation in career events, hosting information sessions, and 
engaging students through real case studies. Partnerships like 
CEMS (an alliance of over 30 business schools worldwide) and 
associations such as AEBG (Alliance of European Business 
Games) further demonstrate the Company’s commitment to 
fostering emerging talent.
EssilorLuxottica’s 
commitment 
to 
education 
and 
talent 
development is exemplified through its flagship programs:
•
The Operations Talent Program (OTP) – A two-year 
development path tailored for new graduates from STEM 
fields, equipping them with essential skills to thrive in 
EssilorLuxottica’s operations. Initially launched in Agordo 
(Italy) and Créteil (France), the program expanded globally in 
2024 to include Thailand, Mexico, Brazil, and the United 
States. With a strong focus on diversity, women represented 
47% of the participants across the 2023 and 2024 editions of 
the program. Notably, the 2024 cohort shows a significant 
increase, with women making up 70% of its participants. The 
OTP is a cornerstone of EssilorLuxottica’s strategy to build an 
international pipeline of operational leaders.
•
The EssilorLuxottica Smart Eyewear Lab (SEL): Located in 
Milan, this cutting-edge joint research platform with 
Politecnico di Milano is designed to shape the smart glasses 
of the future. Over five years, more than 100 researchers and 
scientists have collaborated in a dedicated space, driving 
technological innovation in eyewear. Currently based at the 
Leonardo Campus, the lab will move in the near future to 
Milan’s Bovisa Innovation District, a redevelopment project 
led by Renzo Piano.
Through these combined efforts, EssilorLuxottica strengthens its 
ability to attract, develop, and retain top talent. By investing in 
both external partnerships and internal engagement, the Group 
creates a dynamic and inclusive environment where individuals 
thrive and contribute to its ongoing success.
Accessible Education through Leonardo, the Group’s 
Learning Ecosystem
Leonardo, 
EssilorLuxottica’s 
learning 
ecosystem, 
features 
expert-curated content that can be tailored to learner needs. It 
has been designed to be accessible for every member of the 
eyewear and vision care community across the world. It 
addresses EssilorLuxottica employees and customers, as well as 
eyecare professionals at every level and every role, offering 
them the opportunity to continuously expand their skills, 
knowledge, and mindset. With this broad ‘unlocking’ of 
knowledge, 
EssilorLuxottica 
makes 
an 
investment 
that 
represents one of the levers used to help unravel the potential 
of the industry. Since its launch in 2021, Leonardo has delivered 
over 9  million hours of education in up to 30 languages, 
becoming a key tool for attracting and retaining resources.
Leonardo uses a blended approach to education, combining 
on-demand content with live sessions, virtual classes, and digital 
services which are available to both EssilorLuxottica clients and 
employees. In 2024, Leonardo strengthened its educational 
offer, to which new structured programs, such as Luxury 
Eyewear: Crafting Excellence, Transitions Expert, Ray-Ban | Meta 
Smart Glasses, Nuance Audio and World of Optics programs, as 
well as on-demand content have been added. Among the 
novelties released during the year it is worth mentioning the 
Competency Hub, a space where all employees can explore the 
new Competency Model with a customized experience, tailored 
to their needs. 
Moreover, its continuous commitment to learners has been 
solidified with the renewal of its partnership with Harvard 
Business Publishing, enhancing the platform’s management and 
leadership-related content with a selection of curated courses to 
enrich both personal and professional skills, as well as through 
the enrichment of the educational offer on products, brands, 
and lens innovations. Thanks to ‘Latest Collections’, the 
interactive online catalogue that provides a comprehensive 
overview of every style in EssilorLuxottica’s eyewear collections, 
and ‘The Highlights’ Leonardo gives access to storytelling, 
inspiration, support for advertising campaigns, and key technical 
details of every eyewear collection. At the same time, Leonardo 
has been one of the key levers of success for the lens 
innovations launched throughout the year, such as Transitions 
GenS, for which dedicated content and market specific 
deployment plan have been put in place. The vision care 
educational offer has also been enriched with content on vision 
solutions such as Nikon, Kodak and Shamir. 
To reinforce the connection with learners and foster a sense of 
community globally, Leonardo organized global live events 
open to all EssilorLuxottica employees and partners to celebrate 
industry or globally renowned international days throughout 
2024, marking an exclusive and unique service available only on 
Leonardo. 
Sustainability Report
Social Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
97

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Based on the experience gained in 2023, Leonardo has 
continued the roll out of the Build Your Career path in several 
countries throughout the year, aiming to complete it in 2025. 
Build Your Career is the ultimate section designed to help 
independent practitioners to upskill their staff and strengthen 
their knowledge in order to be recognized by patients as 
trusted optical practice members. This section offers structured 
programs that accompany the staff in their personal and 
professional development, whether they are new to the industry 
or experienced professionals. 
2024 also marked the opening of the first Leonardo physical 
Educational Center in France: Leonardo@Créteil. Since its 
opening in April, it has welcomed professionals from the 
Company’s professional solutions network in France, helping 
them develop their skills as experts in visual health with 
technical, sales and management training sessions. By obtaining 
Qualiopi 
quality 
certification, 
Leonardo@Créteil 
allows 
participants to co-finance their training with public funds 
(OPCO), guaranteeing greater accessibility to the programs. 
Sustainability-related topics in general are part of the engaging 
portfolio offered by Leonardo from which employees can 
retrieve material to increase their awareness. Indeed, the hours 
of education on sustainability topics delivered in 2024 represent 
around 13% of the total hours delivered on the platform, to both 
internal and external audience. 
In 2024, the adoption of Leonardo grew strongly: 3.4  million 
hours of education have been delivered to employees and 
external networks, which represents a growth of +25% 
compared with 2023(1). 18,639 live sessions have been organized 
with the participation of over 1 million people, reaching a total 
number of 70,500 sessions since the launch and a total number 
of over 3.4 million participants. 
Hours of Education and Number of Employees Educated
2024
2023
TOTAL HOURS OF EDUCATION DELIVERED TO EMPLOYEES
4,460,342
3,684,658
Number of employees educated through centrally managed programs
145,350
132,587
Number of employees educated through locally managed programs
92,184
84,662
Note: In 2024, a total of 4.5 million hours of education were delivered across the Group. Of this, over 2.4 million hours were centrally managed and provided 
to employees globally through Leonardo, achieving a record high and reporting a 14% increase compared to 2023. A key driver of this growth was the launch 
of the Competency Hub, a dedicated space enabling employees to explore the new Competency Model through a customized experience tailored to their 
individual needs. Over 145,000 employees were educated through Leonardo, marking a 10% increase compared to 2023. On the locally managed side, over 
1.9  million hours of education were delivered to more than 92,000 employees, representing a 24% increase in hours and a 10% rise in the number of 
employees educated compared to 2023, emphasizing the strength and reach of the ecosystem. For further information on reporting methodology and 
scope, please refer to Section 5 Methodology Note.
3.1.4.14
Targets and metrics
The Company pursues continuous improvement through 
specific targets and monitors the impact of its actions using 
defined metrics, as detailed so far and in the following section:
•
talent management: the 2024 OnePerformance cycle 
expanded its scope by 19% compared to 2023, involving 
around 56,000 employees. As of December  31, 2024, the 
global goal-setting completion rate for 2024 was at 94% 
surpassing the 2023 rate by 5%. In the future, EssilorLuxottica 
is committed in enlarging the number of employees involved 
in Performance Management process year over year.
•
talent development: global talent initiatives engaged over 
1,500 individuals worldwide, driving diversity and growth. In 
the future, EssilorLuxottica aims to enlarge the number of 
employees involved in the Global Development initiatives 
year over year.
•
talent attraction: the Operations Talent Program (OTP) 
expanded globally in 2024. Women represented 47% of the 
participants across the 2023 and 2024 editions.
•
Leonardo and education: 4.5 million hours of education have 
been delivered to employees, which represents a growth of 
+20% compared with 2023. Roll out of the Build Your Career 
path in several countries throughout the year, aiming to 
complete it in 2025.
Sustainability Report
Social Information
98
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
(1) 
The 3.4 million hours delivered in Leonardo represent the total reach across the full target audience perimeter, including external networks – both in 
professional solutions and among optical students and boutiques. In contrast, the hours shown in the table ‘Hours of education and number of 
employees educated’ reflect only internal adoption, covering the entire EssilorLuxottica employee network and are comprehensive of centrally managed 
Leonardo education and locally managed programs.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

3.1.5
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion
3.1.5.1
Introduction 
EssilorLuxottica is deeply dedicated to fostering an inclusive 
environment where equal opportunities are accessible to every 
employee, at every level. The Group ensures equal pay for 
equal work, free from distinctions based on race, gender, age, 
nationality, religion, sexual orientation, political views, marital 
status, union membership, or disabilities. Guided by its Code of 
Ethics, 
EssilorLuxottica 
strictly 
prohibits 
discrimination, 
harassment, or intimidation of any kind.
The Company prioritizes cultivating a diverse and inclusive 
workplace where individual perspectives and innovative ideas 
thrive. Career opportunities and advancements are determined 
through a lens of fairness and meritocracy.
With a presence in over 150 countries, the Group proudly 
reflects a global community, enriched by a variety of cultures, 
identities, and languages. The workforce embraces talent across 
all backgrounds, striving to ensure that every employee feels 
valued, supported, and inspired in their professional journey.
3.1.5.2
Material impacts, risks and opportunities
Material ESG 
topic
IRO name
IRO description
Policy
Target/Metric
Diversity 
Equity and 
Inclusion
Efficiencies 
related to 
promoting 
diverse and 
inclusive 
environment
Promoting a diverse and inclusive environment 
creates opportunities for increased efficiency 
and growth. Ensuring gender equality and equal 
pay, as well as employment and inclusion of 
persons with disabilities, expands the talent 
pool, fosters innovation, and enhances 
employee satisfaction. Prioritizing diversity helps 
the organization better connect with global 
markets, while measures against violence and 
harassment ensure a safer workplace, boosting 
engagement and reducing risks. Overall, these 
practices lead to higher productivity, better 
decision-making, and stronger financial 
performance.
•
Code of Ethics
•
Global Diversity, 
Equity, and 
Inclusion (DE&I) 
Policy
•
SpeakUp platform 
+ Group Reporting 
Policy 
•
Global Policy on 
anti-harassment 
and discrimination
•
Global Policy on 
Salary Review
•
40% women in 
leadership roles by 
2029 (Rixain Law) 
•
50% women 
in leadership 
programs in 2024 
and same target 
for 2025 
•
100% Group CEO 
and Deputy CEO 
first line involved 
in inclusive 
leadership training 
in 2024 and same 
target for 2025
3.1.5.3
Policies and processes
At EssilorLuxottica, building an inclusive work culture through 
diversity is of utmost importance and reflects the Company 
value ‘We are one, thanks to many’. Its Global Diversity, Equity 
and Inclusion (DE&I) strategy aims at ensuring a workplace 
where all Group employees feel welcome, valued, and can 
express their full potential. In this respect, awareness 
campaigns, 
inclusive 
processes 
and 
policies, 
and 
the 
development of clear goals are key levers.
As part of the ‘Policies and Processes’ pillar of the Company’s 
DE&I strategy, DE&I principles have been integrated into key 
stages of the employee lifecycle. The Group has established 
internal 
policies 
and 
procedures 
covering 
DE&I, 
Anti 
harassment and discrimination, Talent Acquisition, Employer 
Branding and Talent Attraction, Onboarding, Performance 
Management and Development, as well as Well-being and 
Engagement.
These policies reaffirms the Company’s commitment to 
conducting its activities in full compliance with legal 
requirements at both international and local levels. The policies 
aim to safeguarding Human Rights and promoting principles 
established by international organizations, including the 2030 
Agenda 
for 
Sustainable 
Development 
and 
its 
related 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the United Nations 
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the fundamental 
conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO), and 
the OECD Guidelines. These principles are implemented 
through organizational frameworks, external engagement 
initiatives, and specific internal tools. The Chief People Officer 
and their direct reports are ultimately responsible for ensuring 
the proper implementation of these policies. All these policies 
were developed with the support of technical experts and in 
collaboration with local HR teams to ensure compliance with 
local legislation and alignment with the needs of all regions. 
Internal policies are accessible to employees via the company 
intranet or can be provided upon request to the HR Admin.
Sustainability Report
Social Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
99

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Document
Key content
Function
Scope
Availability
Code of Ethics 
EssilorLuxottica is firmly committed to guaranteeing equal 
opportunities for every employee at all levels, and paying 
employees equally for the same work, regardless of race, gender, 
age, nationality, religion, sexual or political orientation, marital 
status, union affiliation, or disability. The Group does not tolerate 
any form of discrimination, intimidation or harassment.
Compliance
Own 
operations
Public
SpeakUp platform 
+ Group 
Reporting Policy
The SpeakUp platform is guided by the Group Reporting Policy, 
is available 24/7 in 19 languages and supported by hotlines in 
11 countries, to report violations such as corruption, Human Rights 
issues, moral or sexual harassment, discrimination, violence at the 
workplace, labor laws, Health & Safety concerns, fraud, and more. 
The Group Reporting Policy (whistleblowing) ensures 
confidentiality, allows anonymous reporting (where legally 
permitted), and prohibits retaliation. 
Compliance/
Human 
Resources
Value chain
Public
Global Diversity, 
Equity, and 
Inclusion (DE&I) 
Policy
The policy outlines the Company’s principles and commitments 
in DE&I areas and focuses on:
•
key processes for integrating DE&I principles, including 
Employer Branding, Talent Attraction and Acquisition, 
Onboarding, Performance Management and Development, 
Salary Equity, Engagement and Well-being, Prevention of all 
forms of abuse, and Support for Parenthood and caregiving;
•
main dimensions driving the DE&I agenda, such as Gender 
Equality, Gender Identity and Sexual Orientation, Parenthood 
and caregiving, Age and Generations, Disability, Ethnicity, 
Religion, and Culture.
The policy is drafted with reference with international principles, 
including the SDGs, the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 
ILO conventions, and OECD Guidelines.
Human 
Resources
Own 
operations
Public 
Global Policy on 
anti-harassment 
and 
discrimination
This policy affirms the Company’s zero tolerance for any form 
of discrimination or harassment, ensuring a workplace where 
all employees are treated with dignity, respect, and fairness. 
It underscores the commitment to fostering an inclusive and 
equitable environment free from bias, intimidation, or misconduct.
Human 
Resources
Own 
operations
Internal
Global Policy on 
Salary Review
This policy outlines the guidelines and procedures for the annual 
salary and promotion process, aiming to attract, retain, and 
motivate high-performing employees. It ensures equity, 
transparency, and alignment with company goals, upholds the 
principles of equal pay and performance-based rewards through 
the ‘OnePerformance’ framework, and promotes a merit-based 
culture.
Human 
Resources
Own 
operations
Internal
Sustainability Report
Social Information
100
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Inclusion Committee 
In 2024, EssilorLuxottica introduced an Inclusion Committee 
dedicated to championing diversity, equity, and inclusion within 
the organization. 
The Inclusion Committee brings together key Company leaders 
from various business functions, regions, and organizational 
levels to ensure diverse perspectives and provide essential 
governance, guidance, and advocacy on a regular basis.
Its main responsibilities are: 
•
Awareness and Accountability 
Guide governance and accountability for DE&I initiatives, 
ensuring they reflect our Group’s values and goals. 
•
Consultation
Drive discussions aimed at prioritizing and overseeing DE&I 
activities, contributing valuable ideas and perspectives 
thanks to the experience and expertise of Inclusion 
Committee members. 
•
Advocacy
Advocate and sponsor the DE&I program, driving change 
within EssilorLuxottica through active participation and 
support. 
•
Decision Making
Contribute to decision-making processes that shape the 
DE&I program and its trajectory, fostering a culture of 
inclusion and belonging at all levels of the organization.
During its first year, the Inclusion Committee has validated 
EssilorLuxottica’s DE&I strategy. The Committee members were 
also involved in an awareness session on Inclusive Leadership 
before its deployment to the Company’s top leaders worldwide.
Employee training on non-discrimination policies 
and practices 
In 2024, the Group enhanced awareness on DE&I through a 
global 
inclusion 
calendar 
featuring 
five 
key 
moments 
throughout the year and dedicated internal and external 
communication campaigns. Specific DE&I dimensions and 
topics were addresses by internationally renowned speakers and 
experts during virtual classrooms on the Leonardo platform, and 
in some cases, they were complemented by local events in Italy, 
France, and other regions.
Furthermore, in North America, EssilorLuxottica continued many 
employee-led initiatives, including the DE&I Think Tank and six 
Business 
Resource 
Groups 
(BRGs) 
(Women’s 
Network, 
Kaleidoscope, Pride, Abilities, Generation Next, and MilVets). 
EssilorLuxottica also continued its long-standing partnership 
with the Optical Women’s Association and established new 
partnerships with multiple professional non-profit organizations, 
such as Black EyeCare Perspective, Out & Equal, and 
DisabilityIN. 
In France, a series of awareness initiatives were organized. The 
Company also participated in a DuoDay annual event 
promoting the work inclusion of people with disabilities. 
In Italy, during November, awareness sessions were held to 
prevent, recognize, and address harassment and gender-based 
violence. These sessions were specifically aimed at all people 
managers in Italy. Additionally, activities were organized to raise 
internal awareness about violence against women in all its 
forms, and the HR Department received specialized training on 
the topic. 
Throughout the year, all regions (EMEA, North America, Latin 
America and APAC), in alignment with the global agenda, 
organized workshops, training, and awareness sessions, also 
involving leadership teams. 
As part of the awareness pillar of its DE&I Strategy, the Group 
also 
implemented 
comprehensive 
training 
for 
the 
HR 
community. Globally, Regional HR representatives received 
‘Train the Trainer’ sessions on the importance of inclusivity, 
addressing unconscious bias, and combating discrimination. In 
Italy and France, most HR functions underwent training on 
confronting unconscious bias and understanding its impact on 
their work with employees. Additionally, specific HR functions in 
Italy received initial training on supporting situations of violence 
and harassment.
Grievance and Whistleblowing mechanisms
EssilorLuxottica 
encourages 
a 
culture 
of 
dialogue 
and 
communication (Open Door approach), and attaches particular 
importance to ensuring that all employees have the means to 
report unlawful behavior or breaches of the Code of Ethics or 
other HR related global or local policies, preferably to their line 
manager and/or to the human resources department, or the 
upper-level manager or HR. They can also address their 
concerns directly to the Compliance function. 
When this does not seem possible, employees can use the 
Group’s SpeakUp reporting tool, which is described more in 
detail in Sections 4.1.5.1 SpeakUp reporting system and 3.1.6.5 
Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own 
workforce to raise concerns.
3.1.5.4
Actions and resources
In October  2022, as a part of coming together as one 
organization, a Global DE&I function was created to establish 
the Group’s strategy, commitments and goals for Diversity, 
Equity and Inclusion. The pillars of the Global DE&I strategy are: 
to Drive Internal & External Awareness by fostering a culture of 
Inclusivity & belonging, Build & Evolve More Inclusive Processes 
and Policies, Develop Clear Goals by Leveraging Data & 
Metrics, Ensuring Diversity of Thought through Ambassadors 
and Regional Networks. 
DE&I initiatives are developed in partnership with Corporate 
Sustainability, Corporate Communications, Leonardo, and all 
EssilorLuxottica employees. 
Sustainability Report
Social Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
101

--- PAGE BREAK ---

As part of the company’s strategy, the awareness pillar aims to 
foster a more inclusive culture by enhancing understanding of 
diversity. To achieve this, the Company annually celebrates a 
dedicated inclusion calendar featuring key occasions that delve 
into various diversity dimensions through educational and 
engaging events worldwide, as well as awareness-raising 
communication campaigns.
Additionally, the awareness pillar includes dedicated training 
sessions to ensure specific groups, such as leadership, HR, and 
other relevant functions, are well-versed in diversity topics. 
The Company is also working to integrate DE&I into key 
processes and policies to promote unbiased decision-making. 
In this respect, the Global DE&I Policy and the establishment of 
the Inclusion Committee represent a significant milestone.
To track progress with a data-driven approach, the company 
measures targets and metrics through KPIs and dedicated 
dashboards.
Global DEI Strategy
Awareness pillar
In alignment with a dedicated Global Inclusion Calendar, 
EssilorLuxottica marked key occasions such as International 
Women’s Day, Mental Health Awareness Month, Pride Month, 
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Week (centered on Building 
Bridges through Dialogue), and the International Day of Persons 
with Disabilities. These initiatives were celebrated through 
global campaigns on Leonardo and at local levels, engaging the 
entire workforce and customers through a mix of virtual and inperson events, workshops, and the distribution of educational 
and awareness materials. These efforts fostered a deeper 
understanding among employees about unconscious biases, 
gender equality, and the multifaceted nature of diversity in the 
workplace.
The 2024 Inclusion Calendar featured:
•
International Women’s Day (March)
On March 8, the Group celebrates the accomplishments of 
women worldwide while raising awareness to advance 
gender equality. 
This year, under the theme ‘Together, we can all Inspire 
Inclusion’ the Group hosted both global livestream events 
about women’s achievements and challenges and local 
initiatives engaging employees worldwide. 
•
Mental Health Awareness Month (May)
The stigma around mental health can lead to feelings of 
shame and solitude, preventing those experiencing these 
challenges from sharing their experiences openly or seeking 
the necessary support. In May, under the campaign ‘Let’s 
break the stigma’ the Group shined a spotlight on the 
importance of mental health, with global live streaming 
sessions and local awareness initiatives.
•
Pride Month (June)
In 2024, with the theme ‘Together in Pride’, thanks to global 
livestream 
events 
the 
Group 
explored 
the 
history, 
significance and evolution of Pride Month, and the 
importance of allyship and representation. Many countries 
including Italy and France also hosted celebrations in offices 
worldwide, together with brands’ and banners’ network.
•
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Week (October/November)
EssilorLuxottica DE&I Week is a global celebration dedicated 
to exploring and embracing diverse perspectives that enrich 
our understanding throughout the year.
The initiative, at its second edition in 2024, focused on 
bridging cultural and generational dialogue and the 
importance of inclusive language. Through a global 
interactive panel and local engaging workshops, and 
thought-provoking discussions, employees were encouraged 
to share their experiences and learn from one another, 
promoting a culture of openness and mutual respect.
In addition, the newly established Inclusion Committee and 
top leaders actively participated in this awareness journey. 
•
Training 
on 
Recognizing, 
Preventing 
and 
Tackling 
Harassment and Violence against Women (November)
In recognition of the International Day for the Elimination of 
Violence against Women, the Group launched a special 
awareness session dedicated to all People Managers in Italy 
on the topic ‘Recognizing, Preventing, and Tackling 
Harassment and Gender-Based Violence’ seeing the 
participation of more than 800 managers from different 
business functions. The session was also the chance to 
explain the commitment of the Group to this topic and 
promoting the internal reporting tools.
Also, in Italy EssilorLuxottica has been recognized as an 
Inspiring Company by Fondazione Libellula, an organization 
dedicated to promoting gender equality and combating 
gender-based violence in the workplace.
•
International Day for People with Disabilities (December) 
On December  3, the Company focused on breaking any 
prejudice around visible and invisible disabilities, with global 
and local initiatives, leveraging both livestream and in person 
events. 
Processes and Policies pillar
Its key features are:
•
establishment of the Inclusion Committee;
•
gender Equality Certification in Italy UNI PdR 125:2022 
(obtained in 2024);
•
global DE&I Policy;
•
new set of policies integrating DE&I principles.
Sustainability Report
Social Information
102
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Goals and Data pillars
This pillar is about monitoring diversity representation, mainly 
women’s representation in leadership positions.
The Group is dedicated to fostering inclusivity across various 
dimensions of diversity with a holistic approach, ensuring that 
every individual feels respected and has a sense of belonging. 
As outlined in the Global DE&I Policy, the Group is committed 
to gender equality by providing equal opportunities, fair pay, 
and career advancement for all while supporting work-life 
balance through parental leave and policies that address 
gender-based discrimination and harassment. The Group 
nurtures a supportive environment for individuals of all gender 
identities and sexual orientations, promoting awareness, 
allyship, and the removal of barriers through global and local 
initiatives. 
Generational diversity is embraced as a driver of innovation, 
encouraging knowledge sharing and collaboration across age 
groups 
through 
intergenerational 
dialogue, 
awareness 
initiatives, and dedicated development programs. The Group 
also strives to include and support employees with disabilities 
by creating accessible workplaces and mainly raising awareness 
and promoting the elimination of social biases. 
Also, awareness and respect for ethnic, cultural, and religious 
diversity are integral to the company’s approach, celebrating 
the unique contributions of every individual. 
Recognizing 
the 
diversity 
of 
its 
global 
workforce, 
EssilorLuxottica tailors its initiatives to the specific characteristics 
and legacies of each region. While maintaining a strong focus 
on gender equality, the Group is also addressing other 
dimensions of diversity, aligning with emerging needs.
3.1.5.5
Targets and metrics
Targets
•
40% Women in Management and Senior Executive roles by 
2029, in line with Rixain Law (baseline 35% in 2024 – Rixain 
Law specific categories).
•
50% Women in global leadership development programs 
achieved in 2024, with the same target for 2025.
•
Inclusive leadership training for 100% of the Group CEO and 
Deputy CEO’s first line in 2024, with the same target for 
2025.
At December  31, 2024, Women represented 35% of the 
Management Bodies and 35% of Senior Executives (both 
categories 
contribute 
to 
the 
total 
Executives-Senior 
Management line in the table below)(1).
The composition of the Management Bodies encompasses the 
key global positions within Group Functions and Senior 
Business Leader with large business responsibility. The list 
evolved as a result of the ongoing integration effort and the 
harmonization of the HR systems, that allowed a higher 
uniformity and quality of data. This process also entailed an 
internal global alignment on the most selective definition of 
Management 
bodies 
within 
the 
Group, 
reflecting 
the 
continuous evolution of EssilorLuxottica and of the key global 
strategic positions needed to ensure its growth and success. 
Senior Executives encompasses employees who directly 
contribute to the definition of the company strategy and who 
play roles with high level of autonomy and decision-making 
power and coordinates teams pursuing these objectives. 
Sustainability Report
Social Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
103
(1) 
The Executives-Senior Management category includes Management Bodies and Senior Executives roles, with a more narrowly defined baseline to align 
with the requirements of the Rixain Law.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The tables below present additional diversity metrics, such as gender distribution by job category and employee distribution by age 
groups.
Metrics
Employee breakdown by category & gender 
2024
2023
TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES
195,428
 
100% 
191,706
 
100% 
EXECUTIVES – SENIOR MANAGEMENT
2,775
 
1% 
2,582
1,3%
Female
938
 
34% 
863
 
33% 
Male
1,829
 
66% 
1,719
 
67% 
Unknown
7
 
-% 
-% 
Other
1
 
-% 
-% 
MANAGERS/EXPERTS – MIDDLE MANAGEMENT
12,933
 
7% 
12,520
 
7% 
Female
5,669
 
44% 
5,362
 
43% 
Male
7,208
 
56% 
7,139
 
57% 
Unknown
45
 
-% 
19
 
-% 
Other
11
 
-% 
-% 
PROFESSIONAL – WHITE COLLAR
37,881
 
19% 
38,920
20,3%
Female
20,437
 
54% 
20,869
 
54% 
Male
17,285
 
46% 
17,975
 
46% 
Unknown
148
 
-% 
76
 
-% 
Other
11
 
-% 
-% 
PRODUCTION/SHOP STAFF – BLUE COLLAR
141,839
 
73% 
137,684
 
72% 
Female
90,392
 
64% 
88,102
 
64% 
Male
49,803
 
35% 
47,975
 
35% 
Unknown
1,627
 
1% 
1,607
 
1% 
Other
17
 
-% 
-% 
Note: The figures for EssilorLuxottica workforce refers to December 31 of each year. The table reflects data excluding 2024 latest acquisitions (Heidelberg 
Engineering and Supreme). The Group’s job level categories remain consistent with those of 2023. Production/Shop staff (i.e., Blue Collar) represent 73% of 
the workforce, primarily in retail and operations. Females account for 44% of middle management, showing an increase compared to 2023. The proportion of 
female in Executive-Senior management roles has also slightly increased from 33% to 34% in 2024. Executives-Senior Management category includes 
Management Bodies and Senior Executives, and other senior roles across all regions. For further information on reporting methodology and scope, please 
refer to Section 5 Methodology Note.
Head count by age group
2024
TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES
195,428
 
100% 
below 18
507
 
-% 
under 30
56,574
 
29% 
30-50 years old
106,056
 
54% 
above 50
32,291
 
17% 
Note: The figures for EssilorLuxottica workforce refers to December 31 of each year. The table reflects data excluding 2024 latest acquisitions (Heidelberg 
Engineering and Supreme). EssilorLuxottica has a strong youth employment rate, with around 30% of employees under 30, primarily in facilities and stores. 
Overall, 83% of employees are under 50, and the average age is 38. For further information on reporting methodology and scope, please refer to Section 5 
Methodology Note.
Sustainability Report
Social Information
104
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

3.1.6
Human and Social Rights 
of Own Workforce
3.1.6.1
Introduction
As stated in the Code of Ethics, EssilorLuxottica is firmly 
committed to respecting Human Rights and labor rights of 
people in its own workforce. EssilorLuxottica is an equal 
opportunities employer, for every employee at all levels, and 
paying employees equally for the same work, regardless of race, 
gender, age, nationality, religion, sexual or political orientation, 
marital status, union affiliation, or disability. The Group does not 
tolerate any form of discrimination, intimidation or harassment. 
The Company is firmly committed to building a work culture 
that is inclusive, and nurtures diversity to allow unique 
perspectives and novel ideas to flourish. 
3.1.6.2
Material impacts, risks and opportunities
Material ESG 
topic
IRO name
IRO description
Policy
Target/Metric
Human and 
Social Rights of 
own workforce
Potential inadequate 
Human Rights practices
Inadequate Human Rights practices or lack of 
processes and mechanisms to monitor compliance 
with the Company’s Code of Ethics and Human 
Rights regulations and principles can damage the 
company’s reputation as an employer (making it 
difficult to attract and retain skilled talents) and as 
a trustworthy business partner for both suppliers 
and clients.
•
Code of 
Ethics
•
Number of 
allegations
3.1.6.3
Policies
Document  
Key content 
Function
Scope 
Availability
Code of Ethics
EssilorLuxottica’s Code of Ethics, endorsed by the Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer and by the Deputy Chief Executive Officer, 
contains a whole section about the respect of people and 
communities, and includes the Group ‘key principles’ and ‘golden 
rules’ in relation to human and labor rights across its operations, such 
as secure employment, working time, adequate wages, social 
dialogue, freedom of association, work-life balance, Health & Safety, 
gender equality and equal work for equal pay, training and skills 
development, employment and inclusion of people with disabilities, 
measures against violence, discrimination and harassment in the 
workplace, diversity, child or forced labor, privacy and personal data. 
The Code of Ethics applies and is binding to EssilorLuxottica, its 
subsidiaries and all their employees. EssilorLuxottica applies similar 
principles to temporary and seconded staff of external companies. 
For more details, please refer to disclosure in Section 4.1 ESRS G1 –
 Business Conduct.
Compliance
Own 
operations
Public 
The Group’s ethical commitment is in line with the provisions of 
International Labor Organization (ILO) Conventions and the 
principles of United Nations Global Compact on Human Rights. 
The Company places particular importance on respect for 
Human Rights and the environment, along with applicable laws 
and regulations (e.g., the French ‘Duty of Care’ law) and 
international standards, such as the United Nations Guiding 
Principles for Business and Human Rights, and the OECD 
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises on Responsible 
Business Conduct. Generally speaking, EssilorLuxottica aims to 
ensure that its activities comply with the International Bill of 
Human Rights and the principles of fundamental rights set out 
in the Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at 
Work of the ILO.
EssilorLuxottica’s Code of Ethics explicitly prohibits trafficking in 
human beings, forced labor or compulsory labor and child 
labor, including for temporary staff. EssilorLuxottica does not 
resort to forced or compulsory labor in any form whatsoever, in 
their operations. All forms of human trafficking during 
employment either directly or through contractors are strictly 
prohibited.
Sustainability Report
Social Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
105

--- PAGE BREAK ---

In relation to child labor, hiring of individuals below 16 years of 
age (or under the legal minimum age for employment in the 
applicable country or jurisdiction, whichever is higher) for work 
is strictly prohibited, except for trainees and apprentices as the 
Group believes that hiring trainees or apprentices is important 
for the development of future talents, as part of their curriculum. 
Hiring of individuals (either employees or temporary staff) below 
18  years of age for positions involving hazardous work is also 
strictly prohibited. These categories of workers must be 
protected and EssilorLuxottica’s policy ensures that they are not 
subject to long hours interfering with their education and that 
their mission is strictly related to their education.
EssilorLuxottica maintains a very high level of vigilance and 
proactivity, with action plans on, among others, Human Rights 
and business ethics, including programs on anti-bribery and 
corruption, privacy compliance. The vigilance system is 
reinforced by the implementation of the internal reporting tool, 
SpeakUp, which is open and publicly accessible to employees 
and other stakeholders. SpeakUp allows employees in the 
workforce to report incidents related to Human Rights and labor 
rights, which are clearly identified in the list of issues that they 
can select – please refer to Section  3.1.6.5 Processes to 
remediate negative impacts and channels for own workforce 
to raise concerns for more details. 
3.1.6.4
Processes for engaging with own 
workers and workers’ representatives
EssilorLuxottica constantly works to anticipate and manage the 
actual and potential impacts on its workforce deriving from 
potential inadequate human right practices that can damage 
the work environment and also jeopardize the Group’s 
reputation. For this reason, the Group seeks to get feedback 
from its workforce through several actions such as employee 
survey and the internal reporting channel, which informs actions 
and procedures to address the issues raised. 
Moreover, 
respecting 
local 
regulations, 
EssilorLuxottica 
acknowledges the value of engaging with Factory Committees 
and Trade Unions as an added dimension for sustainable 
business growth through participative means. As explained in 
Section  3.1.4 Social Dialogue and Freedom of  Association, 
EssilorLuxottica 
regularly 
engages 
with 
employee 
representatives as per local applicable laws. Indeed in France 
and Italy, the Code of Ethics was presented to work councils. 
From an operational perspective, policies and procedures 
regarding Human Rights and labor laws are overseen by 
different teams: Human Resources, Compliance, Environment, 
Health & Safety, the Global DE&I function and finally a 
dedicated Human Rights procedure is under definition. More 
details 
in 
the 
Sections 
3.1.2 
Employee 
Engagement 
&  Well-Being, 3.1.3 Health & Safety, 3.1.5 Diversity, Equity & 
Inclusion.
3.1.6.5
Processes to remediate negative impacts 
and channels for own workforce to raise 
concerns
The CSR Committee is regularly updated on specific topics 
including the Double Materiality assessment and management 
of sustainability issues. The CSR Committee also coordinates 
with the Audit and Risk Committee for all matters related to the 
CSR Committee’s areas of intervention. In addition, the 
Environment, Health & Safety function at EssilorLuxottica is 
responsible for the deployment of environmental management 
systems aimed at reducing environmental impact and ensuring 
the Health & Safety of all employees worldwide. 
EssilorLuxottica carries out its activities in more than 150 countries 
in varied economic and sociocultural contexts, which may present 
risks relating to Human Rights and the environment. Identifying, 
assessing and managing these risks is an integral part of 
EssilorLuxottica’s corporate culture and is strengthened over 
time. EssilorLuxottica assesses its risk exposure through the 
Group risk assessment process, which incorporates the 
identification and evaluation of ESG risks such as Health & Safety, 
and through specific programs that apply to both manufacturing 
sites and suppliers globally. Risk mapping has helped to raise 
awareness and prioritize action plans at both corporate and 
regional levels. For each main risk family, the functions involved 
coordinate the most appropriate approach in a continuous 
improvement process.
The processes for providing or contributing to remedy negative 
impacts include a whole set of corrective actions, either 
individual or general, such as:
•
discussion with Human Resources and manager (or the 
upper-level manager) to discuss the matter at stake and 
recommended actions, proportionate to the negative 
impact;
•
coaching and/or specific training of the employees involved;
•
reminder of the applicable policies to the employees 
involved (‘reset expectations’);
•
enhancement of the existing training to the exposed part of 
the workforce;
•
review and enhance of the policies and procedures, 
if necessary;
•
interim measures such as suspension of an employee during 
investigation;
•
internal reorganization such as change of department or new 
store affectation;
•
disciplinary measures, from verbal or formal warning, up to 
termination of employment.
Sustainability Report
Social Information
106
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Moreover, to prevent or mitigate material negative impacts on 
its own workforce, the Group has also put in place different 
types of audits, both internal and external, in order to ensure 
that appropriate working conditions are implemented in the 
different entities of the Group:
•
external audits: different audits are performed on a yearly 
basis by external auditors in the Group’s major manufacturing 
sites and prescriptions laboratories. Group’s sites can be 
audited either as part of SMETA expectations or as part of 
the EssilorLuxottica Responsible Sourcing and Manufacturing 
program (ELRSM). This program aims at verifying the 
compliance of the Group’s value chain (including own 
operations) to international standards, all applicable laws and 
regulations and the Group Code of Ethics. ELRSM audit 
checklist is composed of four main sections that refer to 
Labor & Human Rights (including among other topics 
working hours, wages and benefits, child and forced labor, 
freedom 
of 
association 
and 
collective 
bargaining), 
Occupational Health & Safety, Environment and Governance 
and Ethics. Each section is composed of multiple questions 
and there is clear evidence of those that are essential for 
EssilorLuxottica. Zero-tolerance criteria are clearly expressed 
(e.g., employment of children under 16  years of age, 
retention of workers’ passports or other identification papers, 
working time systematically recorded, etc.);
•
internal audits on a wide range of topics (training, Health & 
Safety, etc.) are conducted both at operations/production 
site level or at store level depending on the audited topics. 
For both cases audited sites are selected based on a risk 
assessment methodology that considers the following main 
criteria: 
•
country risk profile/external third-party index;
•
headcount numbers;
•
audit cycle/results of previous audits;
•
internal Control System: the Internal Audit Department and 
Risk Management department performs interviews at 
corporate and local level with the key stakeholders to ensure 
that full business and risk perspective is obtained;
•
insights from the Enterprise risk management process.
After each audit, ad-hoc action plans are defined between the 
auditors and the associated involved functions to correct the 
identified improvement points. In 2024,17 audits have been 
performed either covering around 14% of EssilorLuxottica’s 
global headcount. 
Moreover, EssilorLuxottica encourages a culture of dialogue 
and communication, and attaches particular importance to 
ensuring that all employees have the means to report ethical 
breaches. Given the size of the Group, its geographical 
presence and the multiplicity of applicable regulations, several 
channels are in place for EssilorLuxottica’s employees to raise 
concerns:
•
the Group has an Open Door approach and encourages 
employees to speak up to their manager higher-level 
manager, or the human resources department;
•
EssilorLuxottica respects the principles of freedom of 
association and collective bargaining. In several countries, 
EssilorLuxottica has work councils, unions or employee 
representatives to whom employees can raise concerns;
•
where applicable, certain entities have written grievance 
procedures in place, for example via e-services on internal 
portals;
•
employees can use the Group’s SpeakUp reporting tool 
(more details below). Where applicable, like in North 
America, SpeakUp can also be used for grievance purposes 
notably for employees who want to report anonymously, 
outside of the e-service portal;
•
EssilorLuxottica is considering extending the use of the 
SpeakUp platform for grievance in other regions or for 
specific matters, notably in anticipation of the CS3D;
•
in the European Union, employees have the possibility, as an 
alternative to the internal Group reporting (whistleblowing) 
system, to raise their concerns to external agencies 
designated by each member state. Employees are informed 
of this possibility in the Group Reporting Policy. 
The SpeakUp tool is hosted on third-party vendor platform 
which enables case management and tracking of incidents. All 
the cases are identified with a case number, and several metrics 
can be tracked including the case opening and closing dates, 
the date of incident, the follow-ups, as well as the case history 
(appointment of investigator, notifications sent, etc.). The 
system contains reporting and analytics features enabling the 
issuance of detailed reports. All entities of the Group have been 
set up in the system and organized by region, so it is possible to 
obtain precise analytics by region, country. 
EssilorLuxottica strives to comply with the timeframes set out in 
the Directive on the protection of whistleblowers which are also 
clearly set out in the Reporting Policy. SpeakUp is being rolled 
out across Group entities – which may have diverse internal 
channels of reporting – thanks to both global (global 
communication on the Group intranet and specific actions with 
key managers, distribution of FAQs) and local (specific 
deployment with subsidiaries, dedicated posters, digital 
animations, etc.) communication initiatives. Investigations are 
conducted by trained investigators with the support, as 
necessary, of relevant subject matter experts. The outcomes of 
the procedures comply with applicable laws and internationally 
recognized Human Rights and disciplinary procedures, if 
necessary, must comply with applicable labor laws. More details 
in Section 4.1.5.1 SpeakUp reporting system.
Sustainability Report
Social Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
107

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Throughout the SpeakUp process, EssilorLuxottica identifies 
insights that support continuous learning in both improving the 
channels and preventing future impacts. For example, the 
Compliance department continuously improves its investigator 
training, its investigation process and templates, thanks to the 
experience acquired through the handling of cases. As part of 
the actions to be taken further to the closing of a case, 
EssilorLuxottica adapts, reinforces or corrects gaps in the 
policies and procedures. For example, specific anti-harassment 
training was provided in 2024 to certain categories of retail 
managers, following cases received through SpeakUp or 
through other channels.
EssilorLuxottica determines the outcome of whistleblowing 
cases based on facts, as part of its management decision power, 
taking into account, wherever possible, the reasonable 
expectations of the reporters.
It is difficult to measure the effectiveness of SpeakUp using 
indicators. As SpeakUp was rolled out worldwide in 2024, with 
widespread communication, an increase in the number of cases 
was expected and has been achieved, particularly in regions 
where previous systems were not in place. In some regions, the 
system is more mature and employees are making extensive use 
of it. It is still too early to measure its effectiveness, but it is clear 
that it has revealed and corrected situations that are contrary to 
the Group’s values. EssilorLuxottica has a non-retaliation policy 
that is clearly stated in its Reporting policy, in the Code of Ethics 
and related training, in the SpeakUp posters displayed in the 
Group’s premises and in the Group’s policies on Diversity and 
Inclusion and on Discrimination and Harassment.
Data privacy and data protection are priority action areas for the 
Group, that takes steps to comply with applicable regulations to 
help ensure the protection of data, moreover a privacy 
compliance program and training courses were created and 
dedicated functions support the business in implementing data 
protection where relevant. More details in Section  3.4.3.6 
Actions and resources.
3.1.6.6
Actions and resources
EssilorLuxottica attaches particular importance to identifying 
risks and preventing serious breaches of Human Rights and 
fundamental freedoms, Health & Safety at work (referred to 
below as ‘Human Rights’), as well as the environment. These 
risks can arise as a result of its activities, those of its subsidiaries 
or those of its suppliers and subcontractors, regardless of their 
position in the value chain. Identifying those risks entails a 
commitment to make every reasonable effort and undertake the 
necessary measures to guarantee compliance. Actual or 
potential violations to the duty of vigilance can be reported 
through the Group alert system.
The Group responds proactively to risks related to potential 
Human Rights violations through initiatives designed to improve 
safeguards and reinforce the existing system. External and 
internal audits are performed on EssilorLuxottica’s own 
operations. The topic is also covered in both the Group’s Code 
of Ethics and the new Business Partners’ Code of Conduct.
Regular awareness-raising and training initiatives delivered to 
employees on Human Rights and compliance-related topics 
(Code of Ethics, personal data protection, Health & Safety 
policies etc.) are organized via dedicated e-learning modules 
and face-to-face training. A new ‘Code of Ethics’ training was 
launched in Q2 2024 and was completed by 18,558 white collar 
employees as at 31 December 2024. The training effort will be 
continued in 2025.
EssilorLuxottica also focuses on privacy and personal data 
training, and specific training was provided to specific functions 
that may impact the workforce, notably human resources, facility 
management 
or 
Asset 
Protection 
– 
please 
refer 
to 
Section 3.4.3.6 Actions and resources for more details. 
In 2024, EssilorLuxottica implemented the following actions to 
mitigate the potential negative impact from inadequate Human 
Rights practices:
•
deployment of its Code of Ethics and the related training 
within the Group, covering all the areas of the Code of Ethics 
(including the SpeakUp platform and the Open Door 
approach);
•
deployment of the SpeakUp program;
•
drafting of a new Human Rights policy to be launched in 2025;
•
launch of a Human Rights task force to anticipate the 
implementation of CS3D;
•
drafting and launch of new policies including Diversity and 
Inclusion policy;
•
implementation of new privacy trainings and continuous 
enhancement of the privacy notice for both employees and 
candidates.
EssilorLuxottica addresses seriously gaps and issues that have 
an actual material impact on its workforce:
•
appropriate individual actions are being taken on a day-today basis to remedy actual material impacts, where required, 
up to and including termination of employment;
•
harassment and discrimination: further to SpeakUp or Human 
Resources cases revealing situations not in line with the 
Group’s Code of Ethics, specific training was conducted and 
the 
anti-harassment 
policies 
of 
the 
Group 
were 
strengthened;
•
wages – miscalculation of overtime: corrective actions taken 
to remedy a miscalculation raised via Human Resources or 
SpeakUp.
Sustainability Report
Social Information
108
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The key actions planned for 2025, and beyond, in relation to 
Human Rights and labor rights in the workforce are aligned with 
the upcoming implementation of the CS3D and refer to:
•
enhancement of its Human Rights risk mapping and 
assessment process across its operations;
•
update of the Group human right policy and development of 
the associated training.
3.1.6.7
Metrics and targets
Specific targets covering such ESG topic will be set in due 
course.
In 
2024, 
EssilorLuxottica 
received 
445 
allegations 
of 
discrimination, 
harassment 
and/or 
bullying 
and 
sexual 
harassment in its internal reporting channel SpeakUp. The vast 
majority of such allegations were related to daily employee 
relations in the workplace, often including misunderstanding or 
miscommunication issues. At the date of this report, 37 of these 
allegations were substantiated and 67 were found partially 
substantiated, for example when an allegation may not strictly 
be qualified of discrimination or harassment, but is still a 
violation of the Group’s values or Code of Ethics. 
In total, the Group received 1,197 allegations in SpeakUp, in 
2024. This number is a 32% increase compared to 2023, and is 
linked to the launch of SpeakUp in November  2023 and its 
broad internal advertising at the launch and during its roll out in 
2024. None of these allegations had a significant financial 
consequences for the Group. 
In 2024, EssilorLuxottica did not record any complaint filed to 
the OECD, or severe Human Rights issues and incidents 
connected to own workforce that are cases of non respect of 
UN Guiding Principles and OECD Guidelines. Indeed, to best 
knowledge of EssilorLuxottica, no severe Human Rights issues 
and incidents have occured and no related fines and penalties 
occured.
3.2
ESRS S2 – Workers in the Value Chain
3.2.1
Introduction
While being vertically integrated, EssilorLuxottica has a 
comprehensive supply chain and aims to lead by example being 
a leader in the eyecare and eyewear industry. The Group bases 
its success on the proper consideration of local impacts, 
dialogue with stakeholders and the creation of shared value with 
business 
partners, 
suppliers, 
governments 
and 
local 
communities. The establishment of EssilorLuxottica sites 
provides access to meaningful jobs in a buoyant sector and 
generates significant direct and indirect income. 
The Group Business Partners’ Code of Conduct applies to all its 
business partners everywhere and in every circumstance, 
making it a solid base for fair and honest collaboration. 
EssilorLuxottica seeks to work with suppliers whose operational 
practices comply with applicable laws and regulations and, 
more generally, that protect the dignity of human beings, the 
Health & Safety of workers, and the environment at large. 
This section provides an overview of policies, actions, metrics 
and, when available, targets to prevent, mitigate and remediate 
actual and potential material impacts, to address material risks 
and/or to pursue material opportunities related to the workers 
in the value chain.
Sustainability Report
Social Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
109

--- PAGE BREAK ---

3.2.2
Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities
Material ESG 
topic
IRO name  
IRO description  
Policy
Target/Metric 
Working 
condition and 
Human Rights in 
the value chain
&
Equal treatment 
and 
opportunities 
for all
Inappropriate 
working conditions, 
unequal treatment 
and Human Rights 
practices for business 
partners’ employees
Inappropriate working conditions, unequal 
treatment, or lack of Human Rights practices for 
business partners’ employees including inadequate 
safety measures, excessive working hours, and 
insufficient wages jeopardize the health and wellbeing of workers.
•
Business 
Partners’ Code 
of Conduct
•
Code of Ethics
•
EssilorLuxottica 
Responsible 
Sourcing & 
Manufacturing 
(ELRSM) 
program
•
Number 
of audits 
Collaborating with 
business partners 
not aligned with EL’s 
ethical principles 
and standards
Potential lack of alignment or failure to comply with 
the Group’s ethical principles and standards 
regarding fair working conditions and Human Rights 
could damage the Company’s reputation, success 
and achievement of sustainability commitments and 
create legal liabilities for the Group. Stakeholders, 
including consumers, employees, shareholders and 
business partners, increasingly demand for 
transparency and accountability in supply chains; 
any association with partners engaging in unethical 
practices can lead to public backlash, diminished 
brand loyalty, and a loss of consumer trust while 
exposing the Group to legal risks and regulatory 
scrutiny.
•
Number 
of critical 
nonconformities
EssilorLuxottica’s commitment to responsible sourcing ensures 
that the material impacts of its operations across all sectors of 
its value chain are addressed. The Group recognizes that there 
may be high-risk supply chains in the eyecare and eyewear 
industry as well as in the apparel manufacturing, particularly 
manual labor-intensive processes – that require focused 
attention to safeguard the workers involved. These industries 
can be linked to systemic labor rights challenges, including 
forced labor, child labor, poor working and Health & Safety 
conditions, and low wages. EssilorLuxottica commits to ensuring 
that all workers potentially impacted by its operations are 
included in its disclosure. Through the Eyes on Ethics pillar of its 
sustainability program and the Responsible Sourcing program, 
the Company actively works with its suppliers and business 
partners to manage labor risks and ensure that workers’ rights 
are upheld. 
More precisely: 
•
third-party contractors’ workers in the Group’s facilities can 
be impacted by its operations. These workers include those 
engaged in the manufacturing sites, security and cleaning 
services, and temporary or seasonal labor. The Group 
ensures these workers are covered under the Code of Ethics 
and labor policies, ensuring fair treatment and adherence to 
worker welfare standards;
•
EssilorLuxottica pays also close attention to the apparel, 
footwear, 
and 
accessories 
(AFA) 
supply 
chain. EssilorLuxottica works closely with suppliers to ensure 
these risks are mitigated, applying stringent due diligence 
and ethical certification standards to ensure that the 
extraction and processing of materials meet Human Rights 
and environmental sustainability standards.
In any case, as detailed in Sections 4.1.5.1 SpeakUp reporting 
system and 3.1.6.5 Processes to remediate negative impacts and 
channels for own workforce to  raise concerns, the Group has 
implemented specific initiatives to protect workers’ rights, such 
as the reporting system SpeakUp that includes the possibility for 
business partners to report violations of the Code of Conduct 
anonymously and confidentially to EssilorLuxottica. This includes 
workers that may be at a higher risk of exploitation due to their 
inherent characteristics or particular circumstances (e.g., migrant 
workers, women, young workers, home workers, and trade 
unionists).
Regarding certain geographies, there are significant and 
widespread risks (e.g., child/forced labor) in certain parts of the 
upstream supply chain. In certain textile and garment 
manufacturing regions, forced labor in apparel factories is a 
major concern. EssilorLuxottica works to eliminate these risks 
through 
supply 
chain 
audits, 
third-party 
assessments, 
certification programs and collaborations with industry groups 
focused on preventing environmental and Human Rights 
violations in the supply chain. 
Sustainability Report
Social Information
110
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

3.2.3
Policies and Engagement
Document 
Key content 
Function
Scope 
Availability 
Business Partners’ 
Code of Conduct
It reflects EssilorLuxottica’s commitment to respecting and 
promoting Human Rights across its entire value chain as per 
the International Bill of Human Rights, International Labor 
Organization (ILO) Conventions, the United Nations Guiding 
Principles for Business and Human Rights and the OECD 
Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. It sets its expectations 
from its business partners including suppliers, distributors, 
franchisees, consultants, agencies, service providers, outsourcing 
partners, hiring agencies, licensing partners, landlords and aims 
to ensure that they uphold the Company’s commitment in areas 
of ethics, Human Rights and labour standards, environment, 
Health & Safety. EssilorLuxottica also expects its suppliers and 
subcontractors, to the extent possible, to ensure the application 
of this Code of Conduct or similar ethical standards to their own 
suppliers and subcontractors, and to take reasonable steps to 
cascade this Code of Conduct or similar principles to them. The 
document was created under the ownership of the Compliance 
function.
Compliance/
Sourcing & 
Procurement 
Upstream and 
downstream 
Public
Code of Ethics
The Code of Ethics outlines concrete principles on how the Group 
embeds and promotes ethical behavior in the interactions with all 
stakeholders. It is applicable to all Group employees and contains 
rules that must also be applied to workers in the value chain e.g.,:
•
prohibition of any form of discrimination, harassment, bullying, 
intimidation or violence;
•
fair competition;
•
zero tolerance principle for bribery and corruption;
•
protection of Human Rights and labour conditions.
EssilorLuxottica aims to ensure that its activities comply with 
the International Bill of Human Rights and the principles on 
fundamental rights set out in the Declaration on Fundamental 
Principles and Rights at Work of the ILO. The document was 
submitted and approved by the Chairman & CEO and the Deputy 
CEO of the Group.
Compliance
Own 
operations
Public
EssilorLuxottica 
Responsible 
Sourcing and 
Manufacturing 
program (ELRSM)
This program aims at verifying the compliance of the Group’s value 
chain to international standards, all applicable laws and regulations 
and the Group’s Code of Ethics. 
ELRSM audit checklist is composed of four main sections that 
refer to:
•
labor & Human Rights (including among other topics working 
hours, wages and benefits, child and forced labor, freedom of 
association and collective bargaining);
•
occupational Health & Safety;
•
environment; and 
•
governance and ethics (e.g., bribery and corruption, whistle 
blowing procedures, etc.). 
Each section is composed of multiple questions and there is clear 
evidence of those that are essential for EssilorLuxottica. Zerotolerance criteria are clearly expressed (e.g., employment of 
children under 16 years of age, retention of workers’ passports 
or other identification papers, working time not systematically 
recorded, forced overtime, presence of deposit for 
employment, etc.). 
Risk/
Sourcing & 
Procurement 
Upstream 
value chain
Internal
Sustainability Report
Social Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
111

--- PAGE BREAK ---

EssilorLuxottica prevention of trafficking 
in human beings, forced labor or compulsory labor 
and child labor
EssilorLuxottica is committed to combatting any form of slavery 
or human trafficking. The Group has zero tolerance for forced 
labour, including unlawful child labor, in its own operations and 
in its supply chain. 
As mentioned in its Business Partners’ Code of Conduct, 
Business Partners must prevent and seek to eliminate any form 
of forced or compulsory labor, including child labor, in 
employment, as defined by ILO standards, and to require the 
same from their own contractors and subcontractors. The 
Group’s Business Partners must safeguard and prevent 
infringement of domestic and migrant workers’ fundamental 
rights and provide them with fair and decent working 
conditions. Any form of illegal or undeclared labor is also strictly 
prohibited. Business Partners must employ domestic and 
migrant workers in accordance with applicable labor and 
immigration laws, including when they are hired or employed 
through third party agencies.  Besides, Business Partners must 
not hire individuals (either employees or temporary staff) under 
the age of 16 or under the legal minimum age for employment 
in the applicable country or jurisdiction, whichever is higher. In 
addition, hiring individuals (either domestic or migrant workers, 
or temporary staff) below 18 years of age for positions involving 
hazardous work or overnight shift is also strictly prohibited. 
Business Partners must set up appropriate procedures for age 
verification. When hiring trainees or apprentices, Business 
Partners must comply with applicable regulations, ensuring that 
they are not subject to long hours interfering with their 
education and that their mission corresponds to their skills and 
qualifications and enables them to achieve the diplomas they 
are working to attain. Besides, Business Partners should seek to 
prevent any harm toward local communities, notably by the 
preservation of cultural heritage and of environment and local 
biodiversity, by preventing forced evictions and displacement 
and helping indigenous people and affected communities to 
safeguard their environments and rights.
EssilorLuxottica Responsible Sourcing 
and Manufacturing program (ELRSM)
EssilorLuxottica is committed to respecting and promoting 
Human Rights in all its businesses across its operations and 
supply chain. Business partners are expected to commit to 
respect the human and labor rights of their workers and seek to 
comply with all applicable Human Rights and labor-related laws 
and conventions.
According to its Business Partners’ Code of Conduct, 
EssilorLuxottica 
conducts 
risk-based 
due 
diligence 
and 
background checks on its Business Partners and may also 
submit 
them 
to 
self-assessment 
questionnaire 
and/or 
sustainability audits and on-site inspections, directly or by third 
parties, in order to verify the adequacy of their business with the 
principles mentioned in the Code of Conduct.
EssilorLuxottica has mostly focused on its upstream direct 
supply chain, notably through audits of its suppliers, with a 
specific attention and coverage of suppliers of its AFA 
(Apparels, Footwear and Accessories) division. 
Indeed, supplier risk assessments and on-site audits are at the 
core of EssilorLuxottica’s responsible sourcing program. To 
ensure this, qualified third parties support supplier compliance 
with the Company’s ethical working principles as well as 
environmental and social responsibilities. This approach aims to 
prevent the risk of serious cases of noncompliance with sensitive 
topics, including child labor and use of forced labor and 
corruption, when selecting and monitoring suppliers. 
•
For supplier risk assessment, EssilorLuxottica is partnering 
with well-recognized sustainability ratings providers such as 
EcoVadis which assesses the social responsibilities of 
suppliers based on four axes: Environmental, Governance 
and Ethics, Labor & Human Rights, and Sustainable 
Procurement. Suppliers are risk assessed in terms of country 
and industry risk and classified in low, medium and high-risk 
suppliers. Based on the assessment results, either a 
sustainability assessment on EcoVadis or an on-site 
responsible sourcing audit is required. For suppliers with low 
and unsatisfactory performance ratings, a third-party on-site 
audit can be conducted, followed by a possible request to 
implement a corrective action plan. Results of the suppliers 
audits are mentioned in Section 3.2.4 Actions and Resources.
•
For social and environmental supplier on-site audits, 
EssilorLuxottica is supported by third-party auditors in 
charge of assessing supplier compliance in line with the 
Company’s standards and principles as well as local laws and 
regulations, and also to define corrective actions in the event 
of non-compliance. The audit plan is based on a yearly risk 
assessment. It includes notably EssilorLuxottica’s Business 
Partners’ criticality (in terms of country, industry and key 
sustainability risks), spending on suppliers, dependency, 
reputation impact, previous audit results (including date of 
last audit) and employee headcounts. It has to be noted that 
the criteria triggering audits are currently being reviewed 
and will be revised as per the enhanced Human Rights risk 
mapping to be conducted in 2025, in anticipation of the 
CS3D implementation. 
Sustainability Report
Social Information
112
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

EssilorLuxottica has categorized each checklist item as Essential 
or Aspirational criteria in its ELRSM Audit Operating 
Guidelines.These guidelines are internally available to directly 
involved stakeholders, and depending on the criticality of the 
issue, its importance for the business and whether the issue 
refers to key sustainability areas is defined. Aspirational issues 
do not lead to an audit non-conformity and do not need any 
corrective action whereas essential issues require corrective 
actions. Auditors must evaluate each checklist item with 
reference to various criteria and follow up with corrective action 
plans according to a matrix described in the Guidelines. Audit 
findings and related audit results are analysed according to a 
count-of-issue method, based on the severity and recurrence of 
the non-compliances. The rules/categorizations that lead to a 
negative outcome (failure) of the audit are shared with the 
auditees before scheduling the visit. In case of a nonconformity, the Company requests its suppliers to close all 
issues raised during the audit by an agreed deadline after the 
audit to make sure necessary remediation is put in place, giving 
priority to zero tolerance cases and non-compliances with local 
laws, international frameworks (e.g., ILO Conventions), and 
minimum 
recognized 
management 
practices 
(e.g., 
ISO 
standards). EssilorLuxottica works with its business partners in 
order to close the issues, as quickly as possible. Suppliers who 
do not meet the Company’s requirements after a social and 
environmental audit, and refuse to implement the necessary 
corrective actions, or show no improvement and repeated 
issues across multiple audits could be evaluated for business 
interruption or reduction. In 2024, three business partner 
relationships have been terminated due to unsatisfactory 
responsible sourcing audit results. This mechanism is in place to 
guarantee appropriate monitoring of high-risk suppliers, ending 
with the definition of rules for re-auditing or re-qualification, as 
well as follow-up over the short term in case of audit failure and 
a two to three-year time frame in case of audit pass.
The existing initiatives and actions in delivering outcomes for 
value chain workers are tracked by the Responsible Sourcing 
function and presented on a regular basis to the ELRSM 
Steering Committee, composed by representatives of Sourcing, 
Internal Audit, Manufacturing, Quality, Risk Management, 
Compliance and Corporate Sustainability functions.
Non-respect of the International standards
EssilorLuxottica receives SpeakUp cases or complaints from 
value chain workers alleging non-respect of matters covered by 
international Human Rights instruments, as explained in 
Sections  4.1.5.1 SpeakUp reporting system and 3.1.6.5 
Processes to remediate negative impacts and channels for own 
workforce to  raise concerns. In 2024, 10 allegations from 
suppliers and 15 allegations from customers (mostly being 
consumer complaints to be handled by customer service) were 
received in SpeakUp, none of them having any material impact. 
Cases of non-respect of the UN Guiding Principles on Business 
and Human Rights and ILO conventions may include:
•
complaints 
or 
SpeakUp 
cases 
received 
containing 
harassment allegations made by subcontractors, in the 
upstream value chain;
•
harassment and discrimination allegations in franchisees or 
customers, in the downstream value chain.
Engagement with workers in the value chain
At EssilorLuxottica, engaging with value chain workers and 
incorporating their perspectives is important to manage actual 
and potential impacts on their well-being and the sustainability 
of its value chain. This approach ensures that workers’ insights 
inform decision-making and drive improvements in Group’s 
operations and partnerships. Moreover, the approach aims to 
build trust, improve working conditions, promote fair labor 
practices, and ensure alignment with corporate values 
throughout the value chain.
EssilorLuxottica has several engagement mechanisms to gather 
worker perspectives and integrate them into its decision-making 
processes:
•
standards and policies: enforcing the EssilorLuxottica 
Business Partners’ Code of Conduct. All value chain partners 
are required to comply with these standards, which align with 
internationally recognized frameworks such as the UN 
Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the 
ILO Core Labor Standards;
•
regular communication and dialogue: factory visits, worker 
interviews, and focus group discussions as part of the 
responsible sourcing audits, help to understand value chain 
workers’ needs, concerns, and aspirations. Feedback 
mechanisms are established, such as anonymous reporting 
systems (e.g., SpeakUp), enabling workers to report issues 
without fear of retaliation. Indeed, as per the EU Directive on 
the 
protection 
of 
whistleblowers, 
and 
as 
per 
EssilorLuxottica’s Reporting Policy, employees of business 
partners can also report ethical breaches using this reporting 
platform (such as violation of anti-bribery and corruption, 
Human Rights, labor laws, Health & Safety, privacy and 
cybersecurity as well as several other matters as required by 
applicable laws and described more into details in 
Section  4.1.5.1 SpeakUp reporting system). EssilorLuxottica 
encourages its Business Partners to set up their own internal 
reporting channels.
Sustainability Report
Social Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
113

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Workers’ feedback during responsible sourcing audits helps 
identify both actual and potential impacts on their wellbeing, such as unsafe working conditions, wage gaps, or 
excessive working hours. EssilorLuxottica takes steps to 
ensure the perspectives of vulnerable or marginalized value 
chain workers – such as migrant workers, women or trade 
union workers – are understood and addressed during the 
responsible sourcing audits. Moreover, the Group uses the 
takeaways of its engagement activities to verify alignment 
with its expectations on business conduct and standards as 
set out in the Business Partners’ Code of Conduct which 
informs the Group’s purchasing practices;
•
collaboration 
with 
suppliers 
and 
local 
communities: 
EssilorLuxottica collaborates with suppliers to conduct 
training programs and capacity building for workers, 
focusing on labor rights and workplace safety, along with 
dedicated training on the Group’s Business Partners’ Code 
of Conduct. Support is provided on implementation of 
corrective actions;
•
monitoring and audits: EssilorLuxottica conducts regular 
yearly third-party audits at its own manufacturing and 
supplier sites to assess compliance with its labor standards 
and gather insights on worker’s well-being. Audit findings 
inform tailored action plans to address gaps and drive 
improvements.
The sustainability engagement with suppliers occurs at different 
stages of the value chain, from selection and onboarding to 
ongoing monitoring through third party audits and selfassessments, and to post-audit follow-up to validate audits 
findings and implementation plans.
At EssilorLuxottica, the responsibility for ensuring meaningful 
engagement with value chain workers through sustainability 
assessments and on-site audits and integrating the results into 
the decision-making processes is embedded within the 
corporate governance structure. This ensures alignment with the 
sustainability goals and accountability at the highest levels of 
the 
organization. 
Operational 
responsibility 
for 
worker 
engagement resides primarily within the following functions: 
•
Sourcing and Procurement function: Ensures supplier 
sustainability engagement activities are integrated into 
supplier selection, onboarding, monitoring, and contract 
management processes. Works closely with the Corporate 
Sustainability team to address findings from worker 
engagement and audits. 
•
Corporate Sustainability function: Ensures alignment with 
the broader sustainability strategy and international labor 
standards.
The most senior role responsible for ensuring engagement with 
value chain workers is the Chief Operating Officer (COO) who 
collaborates with the Chief Corporate Sustainability Officer, 
ensuring 
alignment 
between 
operational 
practices 
and 
sustainability objectives. Both the COO and the Chief Corporate 
Sustainability Officer report directly to the Chairman and CEO. 
The Responsible Sourcing & Manufacturing Steering Committee 
reviews the outcomes of engagement activities with a focus on 
manufacturing and responsible sourcing audits on a regular 
basis and ensures they follow up on any potential operations 
and supply chain risks. The Chairman and CEO and the Board of 
Directors receive updates on sustainability outcomes and 
provide 
guidance 
on 
strategic 
priorities 
related 
to 
EssilorLuxottica’s Eyes on the Planet sustainability strategy. 
EssilorLuxottica assesses the effectiveness of its engagement 
with value chain workers through a combination of key metrics, 
including number and type of findings during suppliers’ audits, 
resolution times for grievances and corrective action plans, 
participation rate in supplier trainings and improvements in 
supplier compliance with the Group’s Business Partners’ Code 
of Conduct. Effectiveness is further evaluated via third-party 
audits, sustainability assessments on the EcoVadis platform, and 
benchmarking against industry best practices. Findings are 
reviewed by the Responsible Sourcing & Manufacturing 
Steering Committee and integrated into policy updates, 
supplier action plans, and new initiatives.
3.2.4
Actions and Resources
EssilorLuxottica’s 
approach 
is 
to 
privilege 
audits 
and 
remediation in order to prevent material negative impacts on 
value chain workers. In 2024, as part of the ELRSM program 
mentioned in previous paragraphs, 106 responsible sourcing 
audits at supplier sites were conducted, which is a slight 
increase (+4%) compared to the 102 audits conducted in 2023.
Among the 106 conducted audits in 2024, 63 current and 
potential Direct Material suppliers were subject to audits in 
10 countries. The split of audits was the following:
•
five follow-up audits due to unsatisfactory results of an audit 
from the previous year; and
•
58 maintenance audits, to continue to be qualified as 
Company suppliers.
Major instances of critical non-conformities were identified for 
seven suppliers mainly in the areas of working hours, Health & 
Safety and environmental management practices. Action plans 
were defined for all of them and executed in 2024.
Sustainability Report
Social Information
114
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The audit process with a dedicated focus on AFA suppliers 
continued in 2024, with 43 audits on production plants of 
suppliers, representing 64% of AFA Global Collection spending, 
in line with previous years, located in 14 countries. Three 
instances of non-compliance of critical non-conformities were 
identified in the areas of working hours and consecutive working 
days. Action plans were defined for all of them and executed in 
2024.
As part of EcoVadis program, supplier sustainability assessment 
for the top Tier 1 suppliers and subcontractors have been 
carried out in 2024.
In addition, to support and strengthen its responsible sourcing 
program and ensure alignment with Company standards, 
EssilorLuxottica has in place training, capacity building, and 
awareness initiatives targeting suppliers and the procurement 
community. In 2024, a new training initiative focusing on the 
updated Business Partners’ Code of Conduct and ELRSM audit 
checklist was launched focused on suppliers in Bangladesh, 
China and Indonesia, involving 26 factories with 46 participants 
in total. Moving forward, EssilorLuxottica will continue building 
its global program to further align and strengthen the 
organization and management of responsible sourcing.
In addition, with the acquisition of the Supreme brand, their 
responsible sourcing and supplier audit program was assessed 
in 
2024. 
EssilorLuxottica 
conducted 
an 
audit 
checklist 
comparison and pilot audits at Supreme suppliers to prepare 
the integration of Supreme’s respective program.
Besides, as mentioned in Section 3.1.6.6 Actions and resources, 
a Human Rights task force gathering several functions (such as 
Corporate 
Sustainability, 
Compliance, 
Procurement, 
Risk 
Management, 
HR, 
EHS, 
Internal 
Audit, 
Operations) 
to 
coordinate actions related to Human Rights, in anticipation of 
the CS3D has been created in 2024.
In 2025 and 2026, EssilorLuxottica will focus on the anticipation 
of CS3D. The following action plans are planned: 
•
enhancement of the Human Rights risk mapping in 2025, 
including the value chain; 
•
enhancement of third-party training on Human Rights and 
anti-corruption, 
including 
specific 
information 
about 
grievance and whistleblowing procedures; 
•
enhancement of the third-party due diligence and audit 
procedures (upstream and downstream supply chain); 
•
creation and implementation of a general process for the 
engagement of value chain workers as part of stakeholders’ 
initiatives 
(including 
mapping 
of 
existing 
initiatives, 
identifying areas of involvement of value chain workers as 
part of stakeholders’ initiatives, tracking of initiatives and 
results); 
•
selection 
and 
implementation 
of 
a 
third-party 
risk 
management and due diligence tool; 
•
enhanced formalization of prevention and remediation 
procedures; 
•
enhancement of contractual clauses to improve compliance 
with the Business Partners’ Code of Conduct; 
•
periodical update of the Business Partners’ Code of 
Conduct. 
3.2.5
Targets
Specific targets covering such ESG topic will be set in due 
course. However, as part of the Responsible Sourcing program, 
EssilorLuxottica tracks the following metrics for its tier 1 
suppliers: 
•
Number of tier 1 suppliers being assessed on the EcoVadis 
platform;
•
Number of on-site responsible sourcing audits conducted;
•
Number of critical non-conformities identified and followed up.
3.3
ESRS S3 – Affected Communities
3.3.1
Introduction
EssilorLuxottica’s Mission is to help people around the world 
‘see more and be more’. The Mission is fully-fledged into the 
Group’s strategy and is at the heart of its principles and values. 
It is embedded in the Group’s integrated approach to 
sustainable development and its ambition to eliminate poor 
vision in a generation.
Despite the ongoing challenges and uncertainties faced by the 
world, EssilorLuxottica remains resolute in its commitment to 
providing access to vision care in the most vulnerable 
communities, as a leading contributor to the well-being of 
society. 
The launch of the OneSight EssilorLuxottica Foundation in 2022 
– the largest foundation in the world driving inclusive vision care 
access – marked a new chapter in EssilorLuxottica’s journey to 
accelerate its Mission and bring vision care to those in need. 
The Foundation works with governments and non-governmental 
organizations, like-minded partners and thought-leaders in the 
industry to establish and support strategies that ensure the 
provision of vision care and eyeglasses to those in need.
As a testament to the Foundation’s reach and impact, the World 
Health Organization (WHO) onboarded the Foundation as a 
global collaborating partner on the WHO SPECS 2030 initiative. 
This represents a significant step forward in addressing 
refractive error, preventing myopia, and improving access to 
vision care worldwide, particularly in low-resource settings.
The Foundation’s efforts to bring vision care to communities in 
need have been celebrated around the world. Notable 
examples include recognition on Fortune’s Change the World 
list for the 4th time, securing the ‘Champion of Good’ award in 
Singapore for the 4th consecutive year, and receiving the 
prestigious Melvin Jones Fellowship Award from Lions Club in 
New Mexico for its impactful Changing Life Through Lenses 
Program.
This section provides an overview of policies, actions, metrics 
and, when available, targets to prevent, mitigate and remediate 
actual and potential material impacts, to address material risks 
and/or to pursue material opportunities related to affected 
communities.
Sustainability Report
Social Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
115

--- PAGE BREAK ---

3.3.2
Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities 
Material 
ESG Topic
IRO name
IRO description
Policy
Target/Metric
Affected 
Communities 
right and 
engagement
Impact on local 
communities’ 
development thanks 
to eyewear and 
eyecare programs
Eyecare and eyewear programs enhance the overall 
quality of life, particularly in underserved and vulnerable 
populations. Good vision directly contributes to better 
educational outcomes for students and increased 
productivity for workers, fostering economic growth at 
the local level. Additionally, these initiatives often create 
job opportunities within the communities, both in the 
delivery of eyecare services and the distribution 
of eyewear products.
•
EssilorLuxottica 
OneSignt 
Foundation 
strategy
•
Eliminate 
uncorrected 
poor vision 
by 2050
Impactful 
programs 
that give 
vision care 
access to all
Volunteering 
activities and social 
initiatives
Engagement activities and employee volunteering 
activities through the OneSight EssilorLuxottica 
Foundation contribute to the improvement of economic 
and social conditions of underserved communities at a 
local level, as well as enhance employees’ sense of 
contribution and engagement through their involvement 
in volunteering activities.
Creating 
awareness for 
vision care for 
all
Creating access 
to eyewear and 
eyecare solutions 
for disadvantaged 
communities
Creating access to eyewear and eyecare solutions for 
disadvantaged communities by tackling uncorrected 
poor vision in underserved populations, offers a dual 
advantage: improving quality of life (enhanced 
education, socio-economic development, and public 
health) and offering market opportunities (new 
segments, new products, etc.).
3.3.3
Governance and Stakes
The Head of Mission and President of the OneSight 
EssilorLuxottica Foundation reports directly to the Chief 
Executive Officer and Chairman of EssilorLuxottica, and is 
responsible for overseeing the Group’s initiatives to reach the 
2.7 billion people living with uncorrected poor vision. The CSR 
Committee within the EssilorLuxottica Board of Directors 
monitors the progress made on all Mission actions and ensures 
alignment with the Group’s strategy and stated ambition of 
eliminating uncorrected poor vision in a generation.
The OneSight EssilorLuxottica Foundation works globally 
toward creating vision care access across underserved 
populations. To facilitate this, the Foundation operates nine 
regional affiliate non-profit organizations that are duly 
registered in their regions of operations: Europe, Italy, North 
America, Latin America, Africa, India, South-East Asia, China and 
Oceania. Each of the regional affiliates reports its progress to its 
duly constituted Board of Directors. The Head of Mission serves 
on the board of all the affiliates and ensures alignment with the 
global Mission strategy, objectives and adherence to annual 
plans. Relevant functional and regional leaders from the Group 
serve as board members of all the regional affiliates to ensure 
close alignment with Group policies and collaboration with 
relevant stakeholders of EssilorLuxottica.
Today: 
•
2  billion people are wearing glasses, and will continue to 
need eyewear that suits their changing lifestyles and evolving 
vision needs; 
•
2.7  billion people, or one-in-three globally, suffer from 
uncorrected poor vision due to lack of awareness and access, 
90% of whom live in developing economies at the base of 
the pyramid(1); 
•
6.2 billion people do not protect their eyes from harmful rays 
(sun, UV, blue light). 
Sustainability Report
Social Information
116
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
(1) 
Base of the pyramid refers to populations with annual per capita income – based on purchasing power parity in US dollars – of less than US$1,500, the 
minimum considered necessary to sustain a decent life. Source: Coimbatore Prahalad and Stuart Hart, ‘The Fortune at the Bottom of the Pyramid’, 
Strategy+Business 26 (2002): 54-67, http://dx.doi.org/10.19177/reen.v1e220081-23.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

EssilorLuxottica believes that good vision changes everything:
•
Good vision is a catalyst for achieving the UN SDGs: It directly impacts goals related to quality education (SDG 4), decent work and 
economic growth (SDG 8), good health and well-being (SDG 3) and reduced inequalities (SDG 10). By improving vision, 
EssilorLuxottica aims to empower individuals to learn, work and contribute meaningfully to their communities.
•
Good vision improves educational outcomes: children with uncorrected vision impairments often struggle in school because 80% 
of learning takes place through vision. 
•
Good vision promotes gender equality: In many communities, women and girls face disproportionate barriers to accessing vision 
care. By addressing these inequalities and putting glasses on them, EssilorLuxottica intends to empower women and girls to reach 
their full potential.
•
Good vision can transform families: By empowering individuals through professional training and entrepreneurship opportunities in 
the vision care sector, EssilorLuxottica witnesses first-hand how good vision strengthens economic independence for individuals, 
families and communities.
•
Good vision promotes healthy ageing: Regular eye exams can help detect signs of other health issues, such as diabetes and 
hypertension, leading to better prevention and improved quality of life as we age.
The Group’s dedicated efforts to eliminate uncorrected poor 
vision for 2.7  billion people are managed by the OneSight 
EssilorLuxottica Foundation (the Foundation).
3.3.4 
Strategy
EssilorLuxottica believes good vision is a basic human right. The 
Group collectively aims to contribute substantially to its goal of 
eliminating uncorrected poor vision in a generation. To achieve 
this milestone, the Group launched a first-of-its-kind roadmap 
on the sidelines of the United Nations General Assembly in 
2019, supported by more than 20 government leaders, NGOs 
and private organizations dedicated to improving vision care.
The four key pillars of this strategy are: 
1.
Creating permanent access
The Foundation trains people to be primary vision care 
entrepreneurs, supporting them to set up their own optical 
shops and provide mobile services in their communities. To 
ensure the longevity of these services, the Foundation 
provides ongoing business development support for these 
entrepreneurs. It also works with local governments and 
communities to build permanent vision centers alongside 
hospitals, clinics and other primary health facilities. 
2.
Innovating for affordable solutions
Through the development of low-cost, digital and 
automated screening tools that require less operator 
training, the Foundation is scaling up the digitization of 
existing and new efforts and opening up access to 
affordable quality glasses. This is done in close collaboration 
with the Group’s R&D as well as Operations teams.
3.
Funding subsidized and free services
The Foundation works with governments and NGOs to 
provide free and subsidized services to the communities 
most in need through direct and indirect programming by 
focusing free eye exams, free glasses and funding for vision 
care programs.
4.
Raising awareness
The Foundation focuses on creating awareness around good 
vision and prompting health-seeking behavior among 
remote communities that have been without vision care 
access or awareness till now. In addition, the Foundation 
advocates to ensure vision care has the attention it deserves 
among global and national policy makers and decision 
makers as the future of good vision relies on understanding 
the improved quality of life that healthy vision contributes to.
The OneSight EssilorLuxottica Foundation has three primary 
objectives relating to creating access to vision care for this 
population by maximizing: 
•
number of people with permanent access to vision care in 
one day’s travel;
•
number of rural optical points;
•
number of wearers equipped by the Foundation’s (direct and 
indirect) programs.
Targets for these objectives are set at a global level and 
cascaded down to the nine regional chapters annually, based 
notably on priorities and opportunities discussed with partners 
such as, but not only, government bodies and/or public 
healthcare providers. EssilorLuxottica intends to be flexible, 
allowing agility to reach its objectives and to better serve its 
ambition. Each region has a local leader reporting directly to 
the Head of Mission and President of the Foundation. They are 
supported by global functions including Communications and 
Awareness, Advocacy and Partnerships and Customer Giving. 
Focus at a regional and country level on the Foundation’s four 
strategic priorities varies according to local needs and 
population data. Similarly, partners are defined at a country and 
state level to best meet the needs of the Foundation’s 
beneficiaries and accelerate the Foundation’s reach. 
Sustainability Report
Social Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
117

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The Foundation’s communication efforts are key to raising 
awareness, engaging stakeholders and amplifying the global 
impact of its programs. Updates are shared through the 
Foundation’s website and social media, EssilorLuxottica’s 
corporate channels including the website, intranet, social media, 
digital windows and Leonardo, as well as press releases, 
newsletters and articles. Stakeholders can stay informed via 
these channels and interact with the Foundation through 
SpeakUp.
The Foundation is supported by EssilorLuxottica employees 
who participate in clinics and programs, donate to the 
Foundation and help raise awareness. Retail teams lead efforts 
to call for customer donations in stores. Opportunities to 
engage with the Foundation are provided to employees by local 
HR teams, with many employees choosing to support and 
volunteer with the Foundation outside of work hours and 
commitments.
3.3.5
Actions and Resources 
To ensure that the Foundation reached its targets and had an 
impact, specific actions have been put in place for the four key 
pillars of its strategy described above. Select examples of these 
actions include: 
1. Creating permanent access
To ensure permanent access to vision care in even the most 
remote communities, the OneSight EssilorLuxottica Foundation 
works to:
Embed vision care services 
into existing public healthcare facilities
In Africa, the Foundation works closely with government 
healthcare providers across the region to establish vision 
centers within existing hospital facilities. In 2024, 195 access 
points were set up across the region, which provide access to 
24.7 million beneficiaries. This brings our cumulative impact in 
Africa across 589 access points to 78.2 million people.
To further its reach and impact, the Foundation established a 
partnership with the Federal Government of Nigeria in 2024, 
through the National Eye Health Programme (NEHP) of the 
Federal Ministry of Health and Social Welfare, to launch three 
vision centers in Lagos, Ondo and Ogun. This is part of the 
Effective Spectacle Coverage Initiative (ECSIN) Jigi Bola 2.0, 
aimed at fulfilling the presidential mandate of improving the 
learning, earning and thriving capabilities of Nigerians through 
good vision. As part of this initiative, the Foundation successfully 
launched three vision centers, dispensed 20,000 pairs of glasses 
and created access for 3.5 million people in need.
Train underemployed and unemployed youth to deliver 
vision care services within their communities
To accelerate the delivery of vision care services globally, the 
Foundation trains underemployed and unemployed youths in 
rural and semi-urban areas to become primary vision care 
providers, bringing vision care to areas it wasn’t available 
before. 
Participants follow certified vocational training in refraction and 
visual health over 12  months, as well as learn the commercial 
skills to run a successful small vision care business. This model 
addresses three key issues: the provision of vision correction to 
those in need, developing skills and creating livelihoods for 
youths.
2. Innovating for affordable solutions
Tele-refraction
To address the human resource shortage among optometrists 
in rural communities, the Foundation developed tele-refraction 
to allow urban-based optometrists to extend their expertise to 
rural and remote areas without the need for beneficiaries to 
travel far for in-person visits. This also reduced the burden of 
vision care costs on individuals and healthcare systems. 
In partnership with Dr Shroff’s Charity Eye Hospital, a renowned 
eyecare institution in India, the Foundation published a 
groundbreaking clinical study confirming the potential of telerefraction to enhance access to vision care for underserved 
populations living in base of pyramid (BoP) communities. The 
peer-reviewed research, published in PLOS ONE, an open 
access science journal, demonstrates that tele-refraction 
conforms to the gold-standard of accuracy of traditional face-toface eye exams.
Tele-refraction services are now operational in some of India’s 
government health centers, in Kenya with backing from the 
Government of Kenya and the Christian Blind Mission and in 
Ethiopia, with support from the Ministry of Health. At the same 
time, a pilot program is being run in Bangladesh to assess its 
impact and opportunities to scale. 
Combining environmental stewardship and the delivery 
of vision care through the ‘Vula Amehlo’ program
The Vula Amehlo program, a first-of-its-kind initiative, was 
launched in partnership with four South African universities to 
provide unemployed optometrists the opportunity to establish 
modular eyecare businesses within refurbished shipping 
containers. These mobile clinics address healthcare gaps in rural 
areas, offer career opportunities for optometrists, and support 
sustainability by recycling containers, which might otherwise be 
considered unseaworthy or discarded. By repurposing these 
containers, the program not only addresses the pressing need 
for accessible eyecare but also promotes environmental 
stewardship through the creative reuse of resources. In 2024, 10 
sites were opened, creating access for 2.8 million people living 
in rural communities.
Sustainability Report
Social Information
118
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

3. Funding subsidized and free services
State-wide vision care for children in Goa, India
The Government of Goa launched the ‘Vision for All’ program to 
provide all school-going children with a vision test and 
eyeglasses as needed. The Foundation joined as a partner in 
2023 
to 
support 
the 
training 
of 
2,400 
government 
schoolteachers, who subsequently provided vision screening to 
over 230,000 students and distributed free corrective eyeglasses 
to those in need.
Preliminary results have shown improvements in learning 
capabilities, attention spans and confidence among students 
who received eyeglasses through the program.
In addition to improving the overall academic and social well 
being of local children, the program has also raised awareness 
about the importance of eye health among teachers, students 
and their families. In 2024, the State Government of Goa issued 
a mandate for all school-going children to receive an annual eye 
test, setting a precedent for other states in India to prioritize 
eyecare.
Bringing vision care to refugee communities 
in need with the United Nations High Commissioner 
for Refugees (UNHCR)
To address vision challenges faced by refugees and offer them a 
chance to overcome the barriers they face in their new 
surroundings, the OneSight EssilorLuxottica Foundation has 
partnered with UNHCR, the UN Refugee Agency, to provide 
free eyecare services and eyeglasses to refugees in need of 
vision correction. In 2024, the partnership reached more than 
1,100 refugees globally, of which 830  in need received eye 
glasses.
The Foundation will continue to work with UNHCR to screen 
vulnerable refugee populations in Australia, Greece, Italy, 
Kenya, Lebanon, Malawi, Rwanda and South Africa. Those living 
with uncorrected poor vision will be provided with a pair of 
eyeglasses and those in need of specialized care will be referred 
to specialists.
By the end of the partnership, both the Foundation and UNHCR 
expect to have helped approximately 100,000 refugees globally.
Helping specially-abled athletes to ‘see more and be more’ 
at the Special Olympics
For 
over 
two 
decades, 
the 
OneSight 
EssilorLuxottica 
Foundation and Special Olympics have shared a commitment to 
advancing access to vision care for specially-abled athletes 
through the Special Olympics Lions Clubs International 
Foundation 
Opening 
Eyes 
program. 
The 
long-standing 
commitment was reaffirmed again in 2024 by formally renewing 
the partnership. 
Since 2002, this collaboration has provided over 250,000 pairs of 
glasses to athletes worldwide.
Ensuring marginalized communities can receive 
the vision care they need, regardless of circumstance
The Foundation collaborates with partners across the globe to 
ensure marginalized communities can receive the vision care 
they need regardless of circumstance. In 2024, this included a 
partnership with AidOcean, who supported the delivery of vision 
care services in the most rural areas of Papua New Guinea. In 
Italy, the Foundation works closely with the Community of 
Sant’Egidio to improve the livelihood and rehabilitation process 
for incarcerated individuals. And in China, school-going children 
and the elderly remain at the forefront of our efforts through the 
Total Vision Care program, which provides screenings for 
communities in need. 
3. Raising awareness 
Through a range of traditional and social media campaigns, and 
participating in events alongside global meetings such as the 
United Nations General Assembly, the World Health Assembly 
and the G20 Summit, the Foundation advocates for vision care 
as a universal human right. To support these efforts, the 
Foundation has curated a database of over 1,000 studies and 
research reports on the impact of good vision which are made 
publicly available at www.onesight.essilorluxottica.com/research.
In 2024, EssilorLuxottica’s ‘Learn, Act, Share’ initiative has seen 
more than 100,000 employees take time to learn about the 
Foundation (Learn), while 35,000 advocate for the vision care 
cause publicly (Share), strengthening employee retention and 
satisfaction. Over 5,500 volunteers supported the vision care 
cause through traditional volunteering opportunities, and 2,170 
EssilorLuxottica colleagues participated in the World Sight Day 
‘The Right To See’ photo competition, showcasing on a global 
scale what good vision means to them (Act). 
One of the Group’s corporate values (see Section 3.1 ESRS S1 – 
The Company’s Workforce), ‘We care – close to all, no matter 
how far’, underscores its global vision and commitment to 
expanding access to vision care.
Customer Giving efforts were accelerated in 2024, and the 
Foundation successfully expanded efforts in 5,500 additional 
stores, bringing its total global in-store presence to more than 
9,300. 
Sustainability Report
Social Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
119

--- PAGE BREAK ---

3.3.6
Targets and Metrics
In 2018, EssilorLuxottica announced its ambition to eliminate 
uncorrected poor vision by 2050. To define what it would take to 
achieve this ambition, it worked with McKinsey and Co to 
understand what actions would need to be taken. This research 
was published in the report ‘Eliminating Poor Vision in a 
Generation: What will it take to eliminate uncorrected poor 
vision by 2050’ and launched alongside the United Nation’s 
General Assembly in 2019. 
This publicly available report outlines the collective year-on-year 
progress that is needed to realize this ambition. While the 
targets outlined in this report rely on actions by all stakeholders, 
the OneSight EssilorLuxottica Foundation proportionally aligns 
its progress to these targets. 
Since 2013, the Foundation has: 
•
provided 979  million people with permanent access to 
vision care;
•
created 33,400 rural optical points;
•
equipped 86.8 million people in need with eye glasses.
The impact of its actions has reached 139 countries whether 
through direct or indirect (partner) programming. 
In 2024 alone, the OneSight EssilorLuxottica Foundation:
•
provided 216  million people with permanent access to 
vision care;
•
created 5,600 rural optical points;
•
equipped 14 million people in need with eye glasses.
3.4
ESRS S4 – Consumers and End-Users
3.4.1
Introduction
At the core of EssilorLuxottica lies a fundamental commitment 
to its consumers. This section explores the pivotal role of the 
consumer in everything the Company does, from the initial 
design concept to the final product delivery. Its approach is 
centered on three core pillars: data privacy, transparent 
communication and unwavering quality. In an increasingly 
digital world, safeguarding consumer data has never been more 
critical. The Group also ensures that every interaction is handled 
with the utmost care and transparency. And above all, 
EssilorLuxottica strives for exceptional quality in both its 
products and in the consumer’s experience. 
This section outlines how these principles guide the Group’s 
actions and reinforce its dedication to putting the consumer at 
the heart of everything it does. It provides an overview of 
policies covering all consumers, actions, metrics and, when 
available, targets to prevent, mitigate and remediate actual and 
potential material impacts, to address material risks and/or to 
pursue material opportunities related to consumers.
3.4.2
Quality
3.4.2.1
Introduction
EssilorLuxottica considers the quality of the product an essential 
value for the success of the Company. Quality Policies, which 
covers all consumers, reflect the ongoing commitment to 
excellence and customer satisfaction. The Group believes that 
quality is fundamental to build long-lasting trust with its 
customers.
3.4.2.2
Material impacts, risks and opportunities
Material ESG 
topic
IRO name
IRO description
Policy
Target/Metric
Product Safety
Potential Health & 
Safety issues for 
consumers due to 
the use of the 
products
Product defects, inadequate safety standards and 
harmful materials can affect consumers, leading to 
injuries and health issues. This exposure can lead 
to health concerns, including eye strain and skin 
damage. Furthermore, harmful materials can 
trigger allergic reactions, compromising comfort 
and well-being
•
Quality Policies
•
Consumer 
complaints 
management
•
<1 ppm in 
global consumer 
claims related to 
personal safety 
and consumer 
risks
•
Zero recalls in 
EU countries
Risk of litigations 
and reputational 
damages due to 
product quality and 
safety issues
Incidents related to product quality and safety 
assurance may lead to claims for compensation 
from consumers and fines from authorities, as well 
as negatively impact brand reputation, resulting in 
financial losses
Sustainability Report
Social Information
120
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

3.4.2.3
Policies
Document 
Key content 
Function
Scope
Availability
EssilorLuxottica 
Group Frame 
and Plano Quality 
Policy
It outlines EssilorLuxottica’s commitment to ensuring and improving the 
quality of its products or services. It establishes the guidelines and 
objectives the Company aims to achieve in order to meet consumer 
needs and comply with applicable regulations. The Policy takes into 
account Third Party Reference standards such as Medical Device 
Regulation (EU) 2017/745 and the Quality Management System 
standards EN ISO9001:2015 and EN ISO13485:2016, as well as existing 
best practices in the industry.
Quality
Own 
operations
Public 
EssilorLuxottica 
policies for 
Ophthalmic 
Lenses
The policies articulate EssilorLuxottica’s commitment to: 
•
increase consumer satisfaction by delivering an experience which 
meets or exceeds the expectations of consumers and by collecting 
and using their opinions to drive improvements everywhere;
•
ensure all necessary regulations and standards are met through 
a systemic approach, covering the full product life cycle;
•
strive to deliver the Group promise by defining the value proposition 
for each consumer segment and guarantee that they will be fulfilled 
in a verifiable way everywhere and every time.
In order to define success in these commitments, EssilorLuxottica 
structured a quality management system (QMS) relying on requirements 
of ISO 13485.
Quality
Own 
operations
Internal
Consumer 
complaints 
management
Dedicated internal management procedure defining responsibilities 
and operating practices for collecting and handling consumer 
complaints from distribution channels. The procedure applies to 
complaints about technical problems, product safety or health issues.
Customer 
facing 
teams and 
Central 
Quality
Own 
operations
Internal
Human Rights are covered through the compliance policies. 
EssilorLuxottica commits to comply to the applicable laws and 
regulations which include internationally recognised instruments 
(Human Rights) as stated by OHCHR (Office of the United 
Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights). Moreover, 
EssilorLuxottica implemented a CAPA policy (Corrective and 
prevention actions) to address any identified Human Rights 
issues related to product defects or service failures that affect 
consumers.
3.4.2.4
Processes for engaging with consumers
EssilorLuxottica uses various channels to monitor feedback from 
consumers, ensuring continuous assessment of potential and 
actual product impacts. Through its After Sales function, the 
Company gathers insights from market surveillance, product 
claims and returns. This data enables the company to evaluate 
whether adjustments to its quality policies are needed and to 
determine whether corrective actions, new testing protocols or 
updated product risk analyses are required to mitigate potential 
risks to consumers.
This process is integrated into the Company’s overall approach 
to product quality and safety. The responsibility for ensuring this 
continuous engagement lies within various operational roles. 
The After Sales department manages consumer engagement 
channels and feedback collection, while the Group Quality 
function analyzes and assesses feedback related to product 
safety (quality compliance) and product quality (quality 
excellence). By working together, these departments ensure 
that insights from consumers shape decisions on quality and 
safety measures.
3.4.2.5
Processes to remediate negative impacts 
and channels for consumers to raise 
concerns
EssilorLuxottica’s Quality Management System has a dedicated 
procedure to ensure effective handling of consumer complaints 
and adverse events from all Group distribution channels. This 
procedure establishes clear responsibilities and processes for 
collecting, documenting, evaluating and reporting product 
quality complaints and safety issues in compliance with 
regulatory requirements.
Sustainability Report
Social Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
121

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Consumer Complaint Collection and Reporting
Consumer complaints and adverse events are gathered from 
various distribution channels, including subsidiaries and 
distributors in both EU and non-EU markets. Consumers can 
raise their concerns by reaching out to the store where they 
made their purchase or by contacting the relevant brand’s 
Consumer Service directly using the contact channels posted on 
the dedicated website. In countries where EssilorLuxottica sells 
products through proprietary e-commerce sites, consumers 
have access to an e-commerce channel consumer service or 
they can also contact the service via email, phone, and, where 
available, chat. Additionally, the corporate website features a 
dedicated consumer service page with detailed guidelines 
(https://www.essilorluxottica.com/en/brands/consumer-care/) 
providing a unified communication channel regardless of the 
consumer’s purchasing platform.
To ensure timely response, any channel receiving a consumer 
complaint must immediately forward it to the relevant 
department according to the dedicated communication flow. 
This triggers a reporting procedure to the Group quality team, 
which evaluates complaints and determines corrective actions in 
case of defective eyewear models. Reports are stored in the 
company’s PLM (Product Lifecycle Management) Enovia/Matrix 
IT system and analyzed for severity. Corrective actions 
effectiveness is assessed using the KPI about warranties, 
complaints, safety complaints, recalls and fines.
Data Monitoring and Escalation Processes
The Group Quality function periodically extracts and reports 
complaint data to management for review and potential 
corrective actions. Additional measures would be activated in 
case of incidents that could significantly impact consumers (e.g., 
life-threatening situations or severe health risks). For instance, 
the ‘Surveillance and Vigilance’ procedure ensures the event is 
reported 
to 
regulatory 
authorities 
promptly 
and 
legal 
procedures are followed.
Product 
safety 
issues 
are 
tracked 
using 
a 
dedicated 
questionnaire and stored in a specific repository. These issues, 
along with technical complaints, are registered in the PLM 
system 
and 
monitored 
by 
central 
quality. 
Continuous 
monitoring of reports evaluates the effectiveness of reporting 
channels and identifies areas for improvement. 
Root Cause Analysis and Corrective Actions
In case of an incident, a root cause analysis is conducted to 
assess factors such as manufacturing processes, design, 
labelling and user instructions. Depending on the outcome of 
internal audits, solutions may include the replacement or repair 
of individual products, corrective actions to address products 
already on the market and changes to future production. These 
steps are designed to mitigate risks and prevent recurrence.
Additionally, data from complaints feed into the company’s 
post-market surveillance system. This system continuously 
monitors and assesses product quality, performance and safety, 
ensuring appropriate actions are taken to maintain high 
standards and update risk analyses of affected products.
Consumer Feedback and Continuous Improvement
To 
further 
improve 
processes, 
consumers 
contacting 
e-commerce 
consumer 
services 
are 
sent 
a 
dedicated 
satisfaction questionnaire. Available in key countries and 
banners operated by EssilorLuxottica, the questionnaire allows 
consumers to rate their experience and provide written 
feedback. These responses are consistently analyzed to identify 
areas of improvement in consumer service management.
The ability of consumers to report issues using multiple contact 
channels enhances the communication’s overall efficiency. 
EssilorLuxottica also maintains ongoing communication with 
regulatory authorities, healthcare providers and users regarding 
investigations and actions taken.
Risk Management and Current Performance
Cases involving risks of retaliation or other concerns are 
assessed individually with the support of competent company 
structures. To date, no significant consumer complaints have 
been received that justify corrective action. For safety 
complaints, EssilorLuxottica has achieved a retrieval rate of less 
than 1ppm (part per million) on the total number of shipped 
pieces, demonstrating the effectiveness of the company’s 
processes in maintaining product quality and safety.
3.4.2.6
Actions and resources
EssilorLuxottica’s Commitment to Product Safety 
and Innovation
For EssilorLuxottica, product safety is an absolute priority and 
the foundation of any sustainable offering. Its products are the 
result of continuous investment in research, design and 
innovation, and are developed according to high-quality 
standards with stringent controls on mechanical, chemical and 
optical characteristics that are equal or superior to industry 
standards and regulatory requirements in terms of safety, 
performance and durability. Indeed, the Group’s sustainable 
innovation expertise embraces products and services without 
compromising excellence or quality and always guarantees the 
best vision experience. New control plans and test protocols 
have been developed to guarantee increasingly greater product 
safety (i.e., optical powers, lens transmittance and filter 
category, the correct fixing of ophthalmic lenses even on frames 
received by the consumer, new sustainable collection). To 
reduce the waste of materials, samples of products that would 
have otherwise been destined for destruction are used for 
testing New Product Introductions. 
Sustainability Report
Social Information
122
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

EssilorLuxottica’s rigorous testing procedures
To guarantee maximum product safety and efficiency to its 
patients and consumers, EssilorLuxottica performs, with everincreasing effort, all tests required to ensure compliance with 
international regulations concerning chemical substances and 
medical 
and 
consumer 
products, 
using 
both 
in-house 
laboratories and third-party certified facilities. Particular 
attention is given to compliance with restrictions for PFAS 
products and possible developments of related regulations at 
the international level in the coming years.
As mentioned above, EssilorLuxottica conducts rigorous testing 
at multiple stages. Before any new eyewear model enters 
production, tests and risk evaluations are conducted in the 
company’s ISO 17025-accredited internal laboratories. A specific 
protocol has been developed to assess the product against 
EssilorLuxottica’s established quality standards, aimed at 
identifying and mitigating potential risks for consumers. The 
results of these tests are documented for each model and 
archived in the PLM system for traceability. If any nonconformities or critical issues are identified during these tests, 
they are addressed through the quality management system 
before the product can proceed to production.
During the production process, ongoing tests are carried out to 
ensure that the eyewear continues to meet established quality 
standards. These tests include assessments of UV absorption, 
lens transmittance uniformity, optical powers, polarization axis 
and mechanical and aesthetic properties. The tests are done on 
a sample basis for each batch, and the production process is 
strictly governed by detailed operating instructions that are part 
of the Quality Manual. If any product fails to meet quality 
standards, it is flagged as non-conforming and managed in 
accordance with the ‘Product Nonconformity Management’ 
procedure, which ensures the product is separated from 
compliant items, reworked or repaired before reaching the 
market.
EssilorLuxottica also submits representative product samples to 
accredited external laboratories for compliance testing. These 
external labs conduct safety tests in line with European and 
international standards, evaluating a variety of eyewear models 
to ensure broad coverage of different materials, designs, and 
categories. 
More specifically for Ophthalmic lenses, EssilorLuxottica set a 
comprehensive level of actions to mitigate consumer related 
risks. For instance, EssilorLuxottica has identified the potential 
impact to consumer of skin sensitization or irritation arising from 
the use of materials that may not be suitable for skin contact. To 
mitigate this, the company adheres to stringent testing 
protocols as per ISO  10993 standards, ensuring all materials 
used in its products meet the necessary safety requirements. 
Another example is regarding the risk of Lens breakage which 
could compromise consumer safety by exposing eyes to harmful 
cuts. This risk is rooted in potential inaccuracies in lens 
manufacturing or design. EssilorLuxottica mitigates this by 
implementing tests required through ISO 14889.
Overall, EssilorLuxottica’s robust testing procedures at internal 
and external laboratories, coupled with continuous monitoring 
of product quality during production and post-market, ensure 
the company’s commitment to preventing negative impacts on 
consumers while maintaining the highest safety and quality 
standards.
Non-Animal Testing Initiatives
Considering general growing sensibility around animal welfare 
practices (expressed also in the EssilorLuxottica Quality Policy) 
and, at the same time, the need to test products to ensure skin 
biocompatibility as required by international medical device 
regulations, a roadmap has been created to merge these two 
needs. While waiting for a completely in vitro test protocol to be 
included in the ISO regulations to evaluate skin biocompatibility 
of materials and as alternative non-animal methods are 
progressively validated (e.g., the work of EURL ECVAM – EU 
Reference Laboratory for alternatives to animal testing) though 
not yet internationally approved, EssilorLuxottica is already 
working with certified and approved labs to conduct in vitro 
tests and avoid any animal tests, in line with the Group’s 
decision to completely eliminate animal testing to evaluate skin 
biocompatibility of material. Therefore, in 2024 no tests to 
evaluate skin biocompatibility were carried out on animals. 
This approach is also in line with the Group’s animal welfare 
policy and in full compliance with the international regulations 
concerning chemical substances, medical and consumer 
products. However, compliance with international medical 
device regulations may require animal testing. The evaluation of 
such requests requires full compliance of third-party certified 
facilities with local and international regulations on animal 
testing and the scientific proof that there is no other viable 
alternative.
Innovations at the Agordo Central Quality Laboratory
The Agordo Central Quality laboratory has been completely 
rebuilt and continues to increase testing capabilities and 
capacities; a part of the lab is dedicated to mass production 
monitoring in terms of REACH regulation compliance testing on 
finished products, while new sections host new parts of the 
business. Among these, new products from Essilor Instruments 
are now presented in an Ophthalmic laboratory where 
Telemedicine certification is also in scope. The laboratory has 
been upgraded to perform Rx lens testing, and new wearable 
products can now be tested in terms of water resistance thanks 
to IPX custom equipment. The Oakley AFA division has new 
equipment that measures trekking shoes, zipper, bike clothing 
and snow jacket performances to help determine improvement 
opportunities. 
Sustainability Report
Social Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
123

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Regarding the eyewear industry, a new automatic environment 
simulation was developed to accelerate high humidity and 
temperature conditions usually found in APAC regions in order 
to test sun lens coatings. 
In 2024, for the eyewear industry, Agordo Central Quality 
Laboratory has introduced a humanoid robotic workstation to 
simulate real-life use of complete eyewear sets (frame, lenses 
and packaging) in everyday scenarios. This includes actions such 
as unpacking the product, cleaning the lenses, wearing them 
and subjecting them to conditions like sweat and varying 
temperatures. 
The 
robot 
operates 
continuously, 
24/7, 
replicating seasonal changes to ensure thorough testing. 
Additionally, a vibrating machine equipped with a climate 
chamber 
has 
been 
developed 
to 
faithfully 
simulate 
transportation conditions, whether by air, road or train. This 
advanced system performs temperature and humidity ramps to 
replicate the entire product shipping journey.
Advancing Smart eyewear and Hearing Aid Technologies
EssilorLuxottica continues to develop and reinforce its internal 
competence for smart eyewear regulatory framework and 
compliance aspects, applying shared and common guidelines 
for the qualification of new products in every region. Given the 
riskier nature of this new type of eyewear, which integrates 
frame batteries and electronic components, EssilorLuxottica is 
enforcing mandatory control plans with more restrictive policies 
to control product safety, sampling in mass production units for 
testing, even if already certified. 
This year, EssilorLuxottica developed the competence for 
regulatory framework and connected risk assessment for 
hearing aid wearable devices, with the prospect of developing 
wearable products that also integrate systems to help people 
with mild to moderate hearing loss. 
Adapting to a Changing Regulatory Landscape
In the context of a constantly evolving regulatory world, 
EssilorLuxottica employs a regulatory watch process that helps 
anticipate the evolution of International and European 
regulations on product safety and performance, keeping 
consumer protection at the forefront of its operations.
Quality systems are in place to meet regulations across the 
product life cycle and create ever-greater standardization at 
group level. For instance, in 2024, EssilorLuxottica consolidated 
ISO  13485 certifications to most lens factories and its most 
important 
prescription 
laboratories. 
To 
further 
improve 
consumer satisfaction, the Company developed programs for 
structured feedback collection. These insights inform ongoing 
enhancements to products and services, solidifying the 
company’s reputation for excellence.
Protecting Intellectual Property and Combating 
Counterfeiting
With 24,550 trademarks and over 15,000 patents and designs 
owned, intellectual property is one of EssilorLuxottica’s most 
important assets that ensures the excellence, uniqueness and 
superiority of its products. It is based on the registration and 
maintenance of the Company’s trademarks and patents across 
the world. 
As described in Chapter 1 of the 2024 Registration Document, 
the protection of intellectual property rights also involves 
combating counterfeiting. The worldwide proliferation of 
counterfeiting not only threatens official sales channels and 
company reputation, but it also poses risks to the Health & 
Safety of consumers. Counterfeit products do not ensure the 
same elevated quality standards as the originals, which are 
certified for excellence by the most stringent quality tests and 
use of highly innovative materials. The Company’s authentic 
products are impossible to process or replicate without the 
necessary know-how as well as the ongoing innovation used in 
the production processes. To ensure consumers are not 
exposed to counterfeit products, the Company collaborates 
with local institutions and authorities around the world to 
intercept counterfeit products and combat the entire illegal 
production chain as best permitted by law. For greater 
effectiveness in the battle against counterfeiting and the 
expansion 
of 
parallel 
markets 
that 
divert 
goods 
into 
unauthorized sales channels, EssilorLuxottica has developed 
GLOW (Guaranteed Luxottica Origin Worldwide). GLOW is a 
traceability system based on RFID technology that can verify the 
authenticity of products as well as the suitability of resellers. It is 
passive and emits no radio waves, making it safe health-wise. It 
also does not record personal data and only delivers product 
information.
3.4.2.7
Targets
EssilorLuxottica’s commitment to delivering the highest quality 
in their products is reflected in its continuous pursuit of 
excellence across several key areas. The company strives for 
aesthetic perfection, ensuring that every product embodies 
beauty and meticulous attention to detail. Comfort is another 
priority, with the goal of providing users with a perfect fit that 
enhances their overall experience. In terms of performance, 
EssilorLuxottica is dedicated to using the best materials and 
lenses that meet technical standards. Functionality is equally 
important, ensuring that all products operate smoothly and 
efficiently. Reliability is also at the heart of their objectives, with 
a focus on creating products that last over time. Safety remains 
a top priority, with a firm commitment to regulatory compliance 
and consumer protection. Finally, the company embraces 
technological evolution, continuously improving based on 
market feedback to stay at the forefront of innovation.
To measure their success in these areas, EssilorLuxottica has set 
clear targets. They aim to receive fewer than 1 ppm in global 
consumer claims related to personal safety and consumer risks 
every year. Additionally, EssilorLuxottica strives for zero recalls 
in EU countries for safety-related reasons every year and aims to 
avoid any fines or sanctions connected to product safety and 
consumer protection in the same region. These targets reflect 
the company’s dedication to providing products that meet the 
highest standards of safety, performance and consumer 
satisfaction.
Sustainability Report
Social Information
124
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

3.4.3
Data Privacy
3.4.3.1
Introduction
In an increasingly global and digital environment, protecting the 
privacy and personal data of all its relevant stakeholders is a key 
priority for EssilorLuxottica. The Group strives to protect their 
privacy all over the world by complying with all applicable laws 
and regulations concerning the protection of personal data.
EssilorLuxottica also expects its suppliers and subcontractors 
processing personal data on its behalf and on its instructions to 
comply with all applicable data protection regulations and to 
include appropriate personal data protection clauses or 
agreements, as well as to demonstrate to have in place or 
maintain adequate technical and organizational measures to 
protect the confidentiality and security of personal data they 
process, including when using subcontractors.
To the extent above, EssilorLuxottica’s privacy compliance 
program protects the personal data processed by the different 
entities of the Group or their suppliers and subcontractors 
according to applicable data protection laws and regulations. 
Such a program includes the definition and regular review of 
applicable privacy documentation (e.g., privacy statements, 
privacy and cookie notices, Group data protection policies, 
cookie banners, data protection impact assessments, etc.) to 
increase stakeholders’ understanding of their duties and 
provide data subjects with clear information (especially through 
the privacy statement and the customer-facing privacy notices).
3.4.3.2
Material impacts, risks and opportunities
Material ESG 
topic
IRO name 
IRO description 
Policy
Target/Metric
Data Privacy
Consumer’s 
personal data 
breaches
Data breaches resulting from inefficient data privacy 
measures expose consumer and stakeholder personal 
data to unauthorized third-parties, causing the 
affected persons anxiety, stress and distrust for the 
company due to the loss of control on their personal 
data.
•
Business Partner’s 
Code of Conduct
•
Data Protection 
Policy
•
Data Privacy 
Statement
•
Customer-facing 
Privacy Notice and 
Cookie Notice/
Cookie Banner
•
Data Retention 
Policy
•
Data Breach Policy
•
Monitoring of 
DSRs received 
at corporate 
level
Infringements 
of data privacyrelated 
regulations
Infringements of data privacy-related regulations pose 
reputation and legal risks for organizations and 
individuals. Non-compliance with laws such as the 
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) or similar 
data privacy frameworks can result in severe financial 
penalties, legal liabilities and potential litigations. 
Beyond financial repercussions, violations of data 
privacy can erode trust with consumers, damaging 
a company’s reputation and leading to a loss of 
consumer loyalty.
Sustainability Report
Social Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
125

--- PAGE BREAK ---

3.4.3.3
Policies
Business Partner 
Code of Conduct
It sets out the EssilorLuxottica guiding principles for 
managing its supply chain responsibly by encouraging its 
Business Partners to implement the same industry-leading 
ethical, human, social and environmental standards 
(including data protection) that EssilorLuxottica applies 
in its own business activities.
Compliance/
Sourcing & 
Procurement
Upstream and 
downstream
Public
Data Protection 
Policy
It sets out the Group’s guiding principles for processing 
personal data and coordinating the flows of personal data 
inside the Group, in line with the requirements set by 
applicable data protection laws and regulations (e.g., 
GDPR). This Policy also sets forth how the protection of 
personal data is organized inside EssilorLuxottica and the 
function that is responsible for the different processing 
steps, in order to ensure compliance with data protection 
laws and regulation.
Compliance
Value chain
Internal
Data Privacy 
Statement
This Statement describes how personal data is collected 
and processed within EssilorLuxottica, the latter acting as 
data controller or data processor in the performance of its 
business activities. It is in compliance with applicable 
regulations.
Compliance
Downstream
Public 
Data Retention 
Policy
It sets up the Group’s requirements and the rules to retain 
data and to dispose of such data, and provides guidance 
on appropriate data handling and disposal. This Policy 
applies to both non-personal data and personal data, 
physical and digital. It applies throughout the entire life 
cycle of the information, from its creation through its 
storage and utilization to its disposal.
Compliance
Value chain
Internal
Customer facing 
Privacy Notice and 
Cookie Notice/
Cookie Banner 
These notices aim at informing consumers and/or endusers on how their data is collected and processed by 
EssilorLuxottica, by providing them with all the related 
and relevant information and details as defined by 
applicable laws (Article 13-14 GDPR).
Compliance
Downstream
Public
Data Breach Policy
This Policy covers the following points: 
•
definition of data breach (both suspected and 
confirmed); 
•
the steps to report a data breach (suspected or 
confirmed) internally (how and who to report the data 
breach to within the organization);
•
responsibilities of the data breach management team 
in ensuring that the organization’s response will not be 
unnecessarily delayed; 
•
instructions on how to respond to a data breach 
following the ‘C.A.R.E.’ model: (i) containing the data 
breach; (ii) assessing the risk(s) resulting from the data 
breach; (iii) reporting the data breach; and 
(iv) evaluating the response and recovering 
to prevent future data breaches.
Compliance
Value chain
Internal
Document 
Key content 
Function
Scope 
Availability
Sustainability Report
Social Information
126
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Approach on Human Rights and engagement 
with consumers
All EssilorLuxottica data protection policies are inspired both by 
the European E-Privacy Directive and the GDPR. In particular, 
the GDPR in its Recitals defines the protection of natural 
persons in relation to the processing of personal data as a 
fundamental right of individuals whatever their nationality or 
residence. Such a legislation is also inspired by the privacy 
principles embedded into the (i) Charter of Fundamental Rights 
of EU – Article  8 ‘Protection of Personal Data’; (ii) European 
Convention on Human Rights – Article  8 ‘Right to respect for 
private and family life’ and (iii) Treaty on the Functioning of the 
European Union (TFEU) – Article  13, as well as the (iv) UN 
Universal Declaration on Human Rights – Article 12.
Engagement with consumers 
The Code of Ethics, EssilorLuxottica Privacy Statement, 
Customer-Facing Privacy Notices, and Cookie Notices/Cookie 
Banners are available on the EssilorLuxottica’s websites and/or 
in its stores. In case of major updates in the Customer-Facing 
Privacy Notices, the customers will receive a communication 
informing them about the changes.
Measures to remedy Human Rights impact
EssilorLuxottica puts at the disposal of consumers several 
instruments to express their remarks: (i) the SpeakUp channel, 
described in the EssilorLuxottica Code of Ethics; (ii) the Data 
Protection Officers’ (DPO) e-mail addresses (both Group and 
local) which are, as the case may be, reported in contracts with 
suppliers and sub-contractors and in the relevant privacy 
notices, (iii) an automated tool (‘web interface’) that consumers 
may access to send the company a request regarding their 
rights pursuant to applicable privacy laws. Such a web interface 
is live for some of EssilorLuxottica’s brands and affiliates. For the 
concerned brands and affiliates, the web interface can be 
accessed through a dedicated link contained in the relevant 
customer-facing privacy notice, (iv) file their relevant request to 
Customer Service or directly to the personnel in stores. As per 
applicable data protection laws, consumers may also file a claim 
to the concerned EssilorLuxottica entity and/or lodge a 
complaint with the relevant Data Protection (Supervisory) 
Authority.
Availability of channels and tracking of effectiveness
Channels like SpeakUp or DPO mailboxes are managed by the 
compliance and Group Data Protection Office, which coordinate 
with the relevant business functions to obtain needed 
information regarding data subject requests.
The other Channels are managed by the relevant processing 
owners, which may involve the Group Data Protection Office for 
consultation and advice.
The Group Data Protection Office that receives requests or 
complaints at DPOs mailboxes can track, when relevant, some 
KPIs (e.g., number of complaints received by the concerned 
EssilorLuxottica affiliate, directly from data subjects, number of 
closed complaints, etc.) with the purpose of assessing the 
effectiveness of the data protection safeguards in place. 
Effectiveness of the channels above can also be indirectly 
assessed by each relevant EssilorLuxottica affiliate through the 
number of complaints it receives directly from other data 
protection (supervisory) authorities engaged by consumers.
EssilorLuxottica and its affiliates have also put in place a data 
breach register, where each personal data breach affecting the 
relevant entity is duly recorded.
Policies in line with internationally recognized instruments
The EssilorLuxottica Code of Ethics and Business Partner Code 
of 
Conduct 
define 
the 
principles 
that 
apply 
to 
all 
EssilorLuxottica employees, contractors, vendors and suppliers, 
and in accordance with international framework, such as the 
United Nations Global Compact, set out a minimum set of 
standards 
(including 
data 
protection) 
that 
cannot 
be 
compromised.
EssilorLuxottica strives to comply with all data protection laws 
and regulations applicable in countries where it operates to 
ensure the protection of personal data of its stakeholders, 
including regulations like the General Data Protection 
Regulation (GDPR) in Europe, the California Consumer Privacy 
Act (CCPA) in the United States, the Lei Geral de Proteção de 
Dados Pessoais (General Data Privacy Law – LGPD) in Brazil, the 
Personal Information Protection Law (PIPL) in China, as well as 
specific regulations such as the Health Insurance Portability and 
Accountability Act (HIPAA) in the United States (with regard to 
the privacy aspects). EssilorLuxottica is also taking steps to 
understand the impact of new regulations on its current privacy 
processes and procedures, such as the Digital Service Act in 
Europe, the Digital Marketing Act or the new European IA Act.
Furthermore, its policies, statements, notices and guidelines 
conform to the following internationally-recognized privacy 
instruments:
•
the Standard Contractual Clauses for the transfer of personal 
data to third countries implemented by the European 
Commission (‘SCCs’);
•
the guidelines, recommendations, best practices and 
opinions issued by the European Data Protection Board 
(‘EDPB’).
Sustainability Report
Social Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
127

--- PAGE BREAK ---

3.4.3.4
Processes for engaging with consumers 
In recent years, data protection laws and regulations have 
increased significantly and still continue to do so, giving 
individuals more and more control over their personal data. In a 
digital economy – and given the Group’s digital footprint – 
EssilorLuxottica considers the protection of the personal data of its 
consumers (including patients and children) an essential priority.
As a result, appropriate measures and safeguards are 
implemented to protect the personal data that EssilorLuxottica 
processes. In the event a data breach occurs or is suspected to 
occur, the Group’s policies ensure notification of its consumers 
and any applicable regulators where it is legally required to do so.
Engagement of consumers may occur directly and in the 
following situations: (i) when they visit and/or purchase products 
or services at Group stores; (ii) when they browse and/or 
purchase on its e-commerce platforms; (iii) when they use one of 
its digital tools/applications; (iv) when they contact the customer 
service. For children specifically, the engagement happens 
through their parents or legal guardian, who will authorize the 
use of their personal data by giving consent in all cases where it 
is legally required for processing.
In accordance with the Group’s policies and with the data 
protection laws and regulations in force, the relevant processing 
owners (as defined in the Group Data Protection Policy – 
depending on the case, retail, e-commerce, digital) have the 
accountability and the responsibility to implement the needed 
and proper privacy notices and to collect and process the 
personal data of consumers and end-users in compliance with 
applicable privacy laws and regulations, as well as with 
EssilorLuxottica data protection policies, statements, notices 
and guidelines. 
The Group Data Protection Office in its role provides the 
business with advice and guidelines, supports the completion of 
risk assessments and provides documentation and notice 
templates. With the support of the Internal Audit function, the 
Group Data Protection Office measures and verifies that data 
protection is properly considered and addressed within 
EssilorLuxottica 
and 
participates 
in 
the 
development, 
monitoring and fulfilment of remediation action plans which 
may arise from such audits.
Additionally, affiliates may assess their consumer engagement 
effectiveness by monitoring data subject rights requests 
received during the relevant period, as well as complaints 
lodged with the relevant Data Protection (Supervisory) Authority 
when consumers are dissatisfied with EssilorLuxottica’s response 
or remedial actions.
3.4.3.5
Processes to remediate negative impacts 
and channels for consumers to raise 
concerns
Measures in place to address concerns by consumers
When a data breach occurs, EssilorLuxottica immediately begins 
the necessary steps to mitigate the impact of the personal data 
breach on the affected individuals. Each Personal Data Breach is 
dealt with on a case-by-case basis, first assessing the risks 
involved and using that risk assessment as basis for determining 
the actions to be taken in each specific case. When relevant, 
EssilorLuxottica may set up call centers to answer questions 
raised by affected individuals, as well as notifying the affected 
data subjects and/or the relevant Data Protection authorities 
(where required by applicable laws and regulations.)
Raising concerns, tool knowledge, trust and protection
Analyzing both consumer complaints received directly and 
those 
filed 
with 
data 
protection 
authorities 
helps 
EssilorLuxottica assess consumer awareness of and trust in its 
privacy management processes.
EssilorLuxottica’s SpeakUp platform, which allows consumers to 
report privacy concerns, guarantees impartiality, confidentiality, 
efficiency and protection from retaliation. The company 
enforces a strict non-retaliation policy protecting good faith 
reporters from any detrimental treatment resulting from their 
reports. Group employees and stakeholders are prohibited from 
threatening or retaliating against reporters. Violations of this 
policy may result in disciplinary action, and both the responsible 
EssilorLuxottica entity and the individual engaging in retaliation 
may face civil or criminal penalties under applicable laws.
Sustainability Report
Social Information
128
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

3.4.3.6
Actions and resources 
Introduction
EssilorLuxottica is committed to protecting stakeholder data 
privacy while ensuring compliance with data protection laws and 
regulations worldwide. The Group has implemented a privacy 
compliance program that integrates a compliance-by-design 
approach 
into 
its 
business 
activities, 
supported 
by 
comprehensive data protection policies and procedures for 
managing personal and sensitive data.
The Group provides employee training through the Leonardo 
platform and live online Teams sessions, complemented by 
awareness programs and technical solutions to prevent data 
breaches. EssilorLuxottica ensures its partners contractually 
adhere to rigorous security standards when processing personal 
data, particularly for new products and services such as 
teleoptometry, 
Ray-Ban 
| 
Meta, 
and 
their 
associated 
applications.
The Group conducts Data Protection impact assessments when 
required by law, such as when processing activities pose 
particular risks to stakeholder personal data, involve special data 
categories, or process personal data on a large scale. It also 
maintains necessary Data Protection certifications (including 
ISO 27001 and HDS) when required for product or service sales 
in specific markets.
Organizationally, a Group Data Protection Office within the 
Compliance Department centrally monitors data privacy issues, 
supported by local correspondents (including Local Data 
Protection Officers) and dedicated committees. As the Group 
develops AI-powered innovations, such as the Varilux® 
progressive lens with eye-responsive technology, it actively 
monitors new regulations and their impact on existing data 
protection laws to maintain trust and mitigate privacy risks
Privacy Training 
During the reporting period, EssilorLuxottica developed new 
privacy and data protection training modules with specialized 
content for teams managing consumer experiences (including 
retail, e-commerce, marketing and CRM staff). These modules 
cover specific initiatives and events such as Black Friday and 
Australian Spam Act compliance. A general privacy training 
program was also created for new employees. Training is 
delivered in live sessions, in-person, on Teams or on the 
Leonardo platform.
Employee attendance is monitored by the Group Data 
Protection Office through attendance reports drafted by the 
trainer and/or produced by the IT tool involved (Teams or 
Leonardo). 
In 
addition 
monitoring 
employee 
training 
attendance, users on the Leonardo platform must pass a final 
knowledge test in order to complete the training.
Role of the Group Data Protection Office
The Group Data Protection Office supports EssilorLuxottica 
affiliates in identifying (i) the key/at-risk functions to be 
addressed with appropriate training and awareness actions; (ii) 
the key/at-risk practices to be addressed with appropriate 
checks and audits; (iii) the actions to be undertaken in order to 
enhance DSR management; (iv) new data protection needs to 
be addressed with appropriate policies and procedures.
Furthermore, the Group Data Protection Office contributes to 
the improvement of information transparency for consumers 
and end-users by developing new customer-facing privacy and 
cookie notices where needed.
In partnership with the Internal Audit function, a new audit was 
launched in 2024 on a structuring process, and another will be 
evaluated for 2025 to assess the privacy compliance of business 
functions playing a key role in the management of consumer 
and end-user personal data.
Increasing awareness and reinforcing channels
EssilorLuxottica is improving the personal data collection of 
consumers and end-users by supporting business and 
operations teams in implementing a deeper granularity in the 
collection 
of 
user 
consent 
and 
management 
of 
the 
unsubscription process. This gives individuals more control over 
their personal data and how it can be used by EssilorLuxottica 
to reach them.
In order to ensure effective implementation of data protection 
principles and rules inside EssilorLuxottica, the Group Data 
Protection Office can support the relevant EssilorLuxottica/
affiliates functions in managing key topics, such as:
•
data subject’s requests;
•
personal data breaches requiring notification to a competent 
Data Protection Authority and/or to the affected data 
subject(s);
•
exchanges with local Data Protection Authorities;
•
development of data protection training.
Sustainability Report
Social Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
129

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Data protection by design
The Group Data Protection Office and the local Data Protection 
Officers support EssilorLuxottica business teams in the 
implementation of the data protection by design and by default, 
to the extent possible and taking into consideration the stateof-the-art, the costs of implementation and the nature, scope, 
context and purposes of the processing, as well as the risks of 
varying likelihood and severity for rights and freedoms of data 
subjects posed by the processing.
Additionally, in order to achieve an appropriate level of 
compliance with the principles defined in the EssilorLuxottica 
Group Data Protection Policy, the Group Data Protection Office 
and 
local 
Data 
Protection 
Officers 
support 
relevant 
EssilorLuxottica business teams to conduct, where appropriate 
and/or required by law, assessments on personal data 
processing activities including, where necessary based on the 
risks of the processing for data subjects or when required under 
applicable 
data 
protection 
laws 
and 
regulations, 
Data 
Protection Impact Assessments (‘DPIAs’).
Data Breach prevention and notification
EssilorLuxottica commits to protect the privacy of its consumers 
and enhance the protection of their personal data by applying 
the principles set out in its Group Data Protection Policy and by 
preventing data breaches from occurring (or by mitigating their 
adverse effects on the individuals involved in case they occur). 
EssilorLuxottica strictly adheres to the laws and regulations in 
force regarding data breaches in the countries where it 
operates, which imply that, when required by the law, 
EssilorLuxottica 
notifies 
the 
competent 
data 
protection 
authorities as well as (where applicable) the affected individuals 
in the case of a data breach. Additionally, it expediently notifies 
the Police regarding the occurred data breach in case there is 
reason to suspect criminal activity behind the breach.
Continuous Improvements
During the reporting period, EssilorLuxottica constantly 
increased its efforts to mitigate material risks for consumers and 
end-users by: 
•
putting at their disposal different channels by which they can 
raise a concern/exercise their rights pursuant to applicable 
privacy laws;
•
increasing awareness and knowledge within the organization 
on data protection rules and principles through data 
protection training/dedicated awareness sessions;
•
verifying the application of data protection rules and 
principles within its organization, through audit and related 
remediation plans lead by the Internal Audit function; 
•
supporting the business to improve tools for data collection 
from consumers and end users by implementing a deeper 
granularity in the consent collection and in the management 
of the unsubscription process; 
•
supporting the business in conducting DPIAs on risky data 
processing. 
In the spirit of continuous improvement, EssilorLuxottica will 
continue to work on the enhancement of the processes and 
activities set out above.
3.4.3.7
Targets
Specific targets on data privacy at Group level will be set in due 
course, but for the time being EssilorLuxottica monitors the 
effectiveness of its strategy through:
•
the governance of the data protection across the Group 
through the setup of specific committees;
•
the continuous assessment of Group’s tools and processes 
from a data protection perspective, by launching, where 
necessary, audits with the support of the Internal Audit 
function and/or data protection assessments.
•
the enhancement of the effectiveness of exercise of Data 
Subject’s right (for example, by improving the web interface 
and enlarging its scope both in terms of concerned entities 
and brands covered), which could also lead to a decrease of 
the numbers of complaints of Data Subjects to the company 
and/or the data protection authorities;
•
the improvement of the transparency of the communication 
toward consumers relating to the processing of their 
personal data (for example through the constant deployment 
of the Group’s notice template to the integrated entities and 
across the geographies – where possible based on local data 
protection laws);
•
the enhancement of data protection awareness among the 
employees involved in consumers’ data processing, by 
developing the needed training.
3.4.4
Transparent Communication 
and Reporting
3.4.4.1
Introduction
Sustainability is an integral part of EssilorLuxottica’s DNA, along 
with its Mission to help people ‘see more and be more’. To this 
end, in 2021 EssilorLuxottica launched its Eyes on the Planet 
program which outlines the Company’s sustainability strategy. 
Communicating on its commitments, from the Corporate office 
to our products, allows the Group to differentiate from 
competitors, build its reputation and loyalty with consumers, 
meet evolving investor expectations, show compliance with 
major sustainability regulations and further reinforce the sense 
of pride and purpose of its employees. As the Group advances 
on its sustainability journey, it is more important than ever that 
its approach and efforts are presented in an accurate and 
consistent way to all audiences and stakeholders, and across all 
geographies.
Sustainability Report
Social Information
130
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

3.4.4.2
Material impacts, risks and opportunities
Material ESG 
topic
IRO name
IRO description
Policy
Target/Metric
Informationrelated 
impacts for 
consumers 
and/or endusers
Enhanced 
customer loyalty
Consumer’s access to quality information disclosed 
by the Group may enhance their trust and loyalty, 
positively impacting brand perception and leading 
to higher financial returns.
•
Corporate 
Communication 
Policy
•
Corporate 
Sustainability 
Communication 
Policy
•
Marketing Copy 
& Claim review
•
Number of noncompliance with 
sustainability 
related 
communication 
regulations
Risk of noncompliance with 
upcoming 
greenwashing 
regulations
As governments and authorities are narrowing the 
attention on greenwashing, non-compliance with 
emerging sustainability and transparency regulations 
could have negative repercussions on the business, 
in terms of legal fines and negative financial returns, 
due to reduction of consumers’ trust and the 
Company’s lower credibility.
Social 
inclusion of 
consumers
Granting of 
eyewear and 
eyecare access
Granting access to eyewear and eyecare promotes 
social inclusion by enabling individuals to fully 
participate in education, work and daily life. 
Improved vision boosts learning outcomes, 
enhances job productivity and fosters 
independence, reducing inequalities linked 
to uncorrected poor vision.
3.4.4.3
Policies
EssilorLuxottica is committed to communicating internally as well 
as externally with its stakeholders and consumers in a clear, 
authentic way about its sustainability commitments and the 
sustainability performance of its products and services to avoid 
any misleading information and ensure compliance with existing 
and incoming regulations. Therefore, the Group has developed 
policies and guidelines, available on the Group’s intranet and/or 
shared with the relevant teams, to ensure that its sustainability 
approach and efforts are communicated accurately and 
coherently to all stakeholders and audiences in different regions. 
Document
Main content
Function
Scope
Availability
Corporate 
Communication 
Policy
The purpose of this Policy is to outline the procedures and guidelines 
that reflect EssilorLuxottica’s commitment and approach to 
communicating and engaging with stakeholders in a manner 
consistent with the Company Code of Ethics and values.
Corporate 
Communications
Own 
operations
Internal
Corporate 
Sustainability 
Communication 
Policy
This document provides an overview of EssilorLuxottica’s guiding 
principles for governing and coordinating the Company’s external 
and internal communication flows regarding sustainability 
(e.g., publications, social media, tone of voice, official source 
of information).
Corporate 
Sustainability & 
Corporate 
Communications
Marketing Copy 
& Claim review
The purpose of this document is to describe the marketing copy & 
claim process review at global level. It provides definitions, scope 
and guidelines to Marketing and Medical Affairs teams responsible 
for creating/submitting advertising or promotional material.
Legal
Sustainability Report
Social Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
131

--- PAGE BREAK ---

3.4.4.4
Actions and resources
To maintain the accuracy and consistency of messages, 
EssilorLuxottica has developed and put in place different 
actions and tools.
Corporate Sustainability Communication
The Eyes on the Planet program is communicated regularly 
across all EssilorLuxottica Group channels with a clear and 
targeted strategy. Progress and results are shared through the 
corporate website, One EssilorLuxottica platform, social media, 
Digital Windows and Leonardo, each with tailored strategies for 
internal and external audiences. 
An editorial calendar ensures a balanced mix of content, 
addressing environmental and social topics to enhance 
understanding of sustainability initiatives, demonstrate the 
company’s commitment, and engage stakeholders, including 
customers, employees and investors through articles published 
on the intranet and website. Additionally, the Eyes on the Planet 
newsletter is sent twice a year, reaching 100,000 employees and 
providing a recap of the most important projects and initiatives 
launched during each semester.
Since its launch in 2021, Leonardo has been a beacon of 
learning about sustainability, providing educational content, 
available on a dedicated channel to all its learners on the 
Company’s sustainability program Eyes on the Planet. On this 
channel, both employees and eyecare professionals can find 
essential tools for continuous learning such as courses, 
workshops and live events on the occasion of world days 
dedicated to environmental and social topics, as well as on 
sustainability reporting requirements. 
As a key annual event, the Corporate Sustainability function 
organizes the ‘Sustainability Week’, a series of live events held 
in April in celebration of Earth Day, focusing on the official 
theme from the Company’s perspective. In 2024, the week was 
centred 
on 
two 
appointments. 
The 
first 
one, 
titled 
‘EssilorLuxottica Sustainability and Mission: 2023 Highlights’, 
was about the connection between EssilorLuxottica mission and 
sustainability, exploring how they continue to strengthen each 
other as well as 2023 achievements of the Eyes on the Planet 
program in 2023. It was viewed by 3,388 learners from the 
Group: employees and customers of its professional solutions 
network. The second one, titled ‘Eyes on the Planet vs Plastic’, 
viewed by 3,724 learners from EssilorLuxottica employees and 
customers of its professional solutions network, was a discussion 
around the Group’s groundbreaking initiatives aimed at driving 
plastic circularity and how EssilorLuxottica is pioneering new 
materials and technologies also actively involving its supply 
chain.
Visual health education
2024 also marked the opening of the first Leonardo physical 
Educational Center in France: Leonardo@Créteil. Since its 
opening in April, it has welcomed 81 professionals from its 
professional solutions network in France. By obtaining Qualiopi 
quality certification, Leonardo@Créteil allows participants to cofinance their training with public funds (OPCO), guaranteeing 
greater accessibility to its programs. Leonardo@Créteil offers 
educational sessions on technical, sales and management 
training, aimed at helping the Group's partners to develop their 
skills as experts in visual health.
Among the added values of Leonardo, there is also its 
educational offer for products, brand, and lens innovations. 
Leonardo uses a blended approach to education, combining 
on-demand content with live sessions, virtual classes and digital 
services which are available to both EssilorLuxottica clients and 
employees.
For more information, please see Raising Awareness actions in 
3.3 ESRS S3 – Affected Communities.
Responsible Marketing
The Company offers many trainings (face-to-face or e-learning) 
for its sales force, retailers, licensees and eyecare professionals 
that focus on product features, lens and frames design, quality 
standards and other aspects. As an example, a specific online 
training for ‘Responsible Communication’ has been available for 
the Company’s Central Marketing functions since 2022, to raise 
awareness 
of 
communication 
challenges 
related 
to 
sustainability, diversity and inclusion as well as provide tools to 
empower its marketing community to develop and implement 
more responsible communication campaigns. 
In 2023, the Company also formalized and implemented a 
validation process for product marketing statements to ensure 
that appropriate proof exists for each of them and that 
sustainability-related claims are developed according to internal 
ad-hoc developed guidelines. A request form needs to be filled 
and presented to the risk evaluation committee, including Legal 
and Sustainability teams representatives, prior to going live with 
a sustainability marketing campaign. To ensure compliance with 
key regulations, claims must also be in line with the overall 
strategy of the brand as well as in respect of the legal 
recommendations/risk assessments.
In addition, in 2024, new versions of the ‘Alternative materials 
glossary and claims repository’ were shared with product and 
marketing teams to give them appropriate guidance and 
examples of communications already developed. Additionally, a 
review of past sustainability communications still live was 
performed to re-align them to the most up-to-date guidelines. 
A new round of updates will be performed in 2025.
It should be noted that due to the diversity of regulations in 
effect around the world, each of the subsidiaries involved in 
marketing the Company’s products and services may undertake 
their own monitoring to comply with local laws, standards and 
voluntary codes in force.
3.4.4.5
Targets
EssilorLuxottica is putting in place frameworks, processes and 
actions to ensure compliance with regulations and avoid any 
potential litigation. 
Sustainability Report
Social Information
132
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

4
Governance Information
4.1
ESRS G1 – Business Conduct
4.1.1
Introduction
EssilorLuxottica conducts business based on solid ethical 
foundations, aiming to establish a relationship of trust with its 
employees, 
customers, 
consumers, 
suppliers, 
licensors, 
investors and franchisees. The principles and ‘golden rules’ 
applicable to its employees are enshrined in its internal policies 
and its Code of Ethics. The Group’s expectations also extend to 
business partners across its supply chain, as outlined in the 
Business Partners’ Code of Conduct. More specifically, 
EssilorLuxottica maintains a very high level of vigilance and 
proactivity, including action plans and programs on anti-bribery 
and corruption and on relationship with suppliers. This vigilance 
is reinforced by the promotion of an internal ‘whistleblowing’ 
reporting system, SpeakUp, which allows employees and 
external stakeholders to report their concerns about ethics 
through a third-party platform.
This section provides an overview of policies, actions, metrics 
and, when available, targets to prevent, mitigate and remediate 
actual and potential material impacts, to address material risks 
and/or 
to 
pursue 
material 
opportunities 
related 
to 
EssilorLuxottica’s business conduct, presented in the table 
below.
4.1.2
Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities
Material ESG 
topic
IRO name   
IRO description   
Policy
Target/Metric
Business ethics 
and integrity
&
Responsible 
sourcing 
practices
Possible 
decrease of trust 
from business 
partners and 
employees
Engagement in unethical business practices, 
violations of whistleblower protection, and unfair 
treatment of suppliers could significantly erode trust 
among business partners and employees. The lack 
of commitment to ethical standards may lead to 
business partners questioning the company’s 
reliability and commitment to sustainability.
•
Code of Ethics 
•
Business 
Partners’ Code 
of Conduct 
•
Reporting 
(whistleblowing) 
policy
•
Training 
activities: 
number of 
people trained
Risk of unethical 
business 
practices
Engagement in unethical business practices, 
violation of whistleblowers protection, or unfair 
behaviour with suppliers may expose the Company 
and its value chain to legal fines, reputational 
damage, and financial harm, as well as undermine 
the company’s long-term sustainability and market 
position.
Corruption 
and Bribery
Risk of ineffective 
policies related 
to anti-bribery 
and corruption
Ineffective Company policies and procedures to 
prevent bribery and corruption may lead to legal 
penalties, reputational damage and financial losses 
if the Group, its employees or its key actors in the 
value chain are involved in unethical practices, or fail 
to comply with local and international regulations on 
anti-corruption. Moreover, ineffective policies could 
undermine stakeholder trust and damage long-term 
business sustainability.
•
Anti-bribery and 
corruption policy 
•
Conflict of 
Interest policy 
•
Anti-money 
laundering 
and terrorism 
financing policy 
•
Training 
activities: 
number of 
people trained 
Potential unfair 
advantage 
compared to 
competitors
Gaining a competitive edge through unfair means, 
such as bribing officials or manipulating business 
practices, could distort market competition, 
negatively impacting competitors along the entire 
value chain who operate ethically, in terms of 
business opportunities and financial returns.
•
Antitrust policy
Sustainability Report
Governance Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
133

--- PAGE BREAK ---

4.1.3
Policies
EssilorLuxottica is committed to acting in a responsible and 
ethical manner in all countries where it operates, in line with the 
provisions 
of 
International 
Labor 
Organization 
(ILO) 
Conventions and the principles of United Nations Global 
Compact on Human Rights. Employees are called upon to act 
with integrity and professionalism inside and outside of work, 
following not only the laws and regulations of the regions where 
they operate, but also the standards of conduct that the Group 
has developed over the years and that are embedded in its 
internal policies and Code of Ethics.
Internal policies and procedures are regularly updated and 
presented to the Board of Directors through the Audit & Risk 
Committee. Compliance with such policies from employees of 
the Group and its controlled entities is subject to Internal 
Audit’s checks. These policies include:
Code of Ethics
The Code of Ethics is applicable to all EssilorLuxottica subsidiaries and 
employees. Last updated in 2023, it reflects the principles and ‘golden 
rules’ that apply to all Group employees and represent a minimum set 
of standards that cannot be compromised, in the following areas:
•
respecting people and communities;
•
conducting business ethically;
•
protecting our assets;
•
acting as responsible citizens.
It also describes the EssilorLuxottica whistleblowing system SpeakUp 
and the related protections.
It applies and is binding to EssilorLuxottica, its subsidiaries and all their 
employees, regardless of their position within the Group or location. 
EssilorLuxottica applies similar principles to temporary and seconded 
staff of external companies. The document is published and easily 
available on the Group’s website and on the One EssilorLuxottica Group 
intranet site, making it accessible to all employees and stakeholders.
Compliance
Own 
operations 
Public 
Business 
Partners’ Code 
of Conduct
A separate Code of Conduct was released concomitantly with the Code 
of Ethics in 2023 and applies to Business Partners in the upstream and 
downstream value chain, which includes EssilorLuxottica’s suppliers, 
distributors, franchisees, consultants, agencies, service providers, 
outsourcing partners, hiring agencies, licensing partners and landlords. 
It is being progressively deployed and new standard contracts and 
standard terms and conditions strive to include, as far as practicable by 
leveraging the business relationship, a contractual obligation for business 
partners to adhere to and comply with the Business Partner’s Code of 
Conduct (or at least to similar standards).
The document is published and easily available on the Group’s website 
and on the One EssilorLuxottica Group intranet site, making it accessible 
to all employees and stakeholders.
Compliance
Upstream 
and 
downstream
Public
Document
Key content
Function
Scope
Availability
Sustainability Report
Governance Information
134
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Anti-bribery 
and corruption 
policy
The Group anti-bribery and corruption policy is based on the Group 
anti-corruption risk mapping and available in 13 languages on 
EssilorLuxottica intranet. It was submitted to the information and/or 
consultation of employee representatives in several countries and was 
integrated in the internal regulation of each of the French entities, in 
accordance with Sapin II law and released in 2022. It includes the 
following principles:
•
the commitment from the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and 
the Deputy Chief Executive Officer of the Group, who co-signed the 
policy;
•
a description of the Group expectations from its managers, notably 
the tone at the top and an exemplary behavior;
•
a description of the Group zero tolerance principle for corruption 
and the prohibition of facilitation payments and kickbacks;
•
a description of the various forms of bribes and corruption, including 
several risk scenarios specific to the Group’s activities;
•
key principles to prevent corruption in specific risk areas, notably 
concerning public officials, donations and sponsorships, gifts and 
hospitality, lobbying and political contributions, conflict of interest, 
with several risk scenarios and do’s and don’ts;
•
practical steps to prevent the risk of corruption with third parties at 
risk, notably vendors, consultants, distributors/wholesale customers, 
intermediaries, as well as in relationship with licensors, franchise 
partners and in the retail activities and in M&A processes and joint 
venture partners. It includes steps such as integrity due diligence, 
contractual clauses, and a description of risk scenarios specific to 
the Group’s activities;
•
governance and control framework, including the possibility 
for employees to confidentially report violations on SpeakUp, 
EssilorLuxottica’s internal reporting channel system.
Compliance
Own 
operations
Internal – 
Guidelines 
published 
on Group’s 
website
Conflict of 
interest policy
The Group Conflict of interest policy is made available to all employees 
of the Group in eight languages. It was adopted further to information/
consultation of relevant employee representatives. The policy includes a 
definition of conflict of interest, with several practical examples relevant 
to the Group’s activity, as well as a conflict resolution guidance, a 
declaration process for employees at risk and a model declaration form. 
Group subsidiaries are required to ask new recruits to declare potential 
or actual conflicts of interest and to organize declaration campaigns 
every other year. In 2024, EssilorLuxottica also implemented a new 
conflict of interest declaration tool which will be progressively deployed.
Compliance
Own 
operations
Internal
Anti-money 
laundering 
and terrorism 
financing 
policy 
In 2024, EssilorLuxottica launched a new anti-money laundering and 
terrorism financing (AML-FT) policy setting out:
•
the Group’s zero tolerance for money laundering and terrorism 
financing;
•
a description of the main business risks incurred and how to address 
them;
•
rules relating to payment means;
•
specific due diligence requirements, based on country risk, the type 
and amount of transaction;
•
an exception procedure to address specific situations, with a specific 
approval process involving various functions in finance and 
compliance;
•
a description of controls, internal reporting and escalation 
procedures, and record keeping. 
Compliance
Own 
operations
Internal
Document
Key content
Function
Scope
Availability
Sustainability Report
Governance Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
135

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Antitrust 
policy
The Group competition compliance policy, available in eight languages, 
was adopted in 2022 further to information/consultation of relevant 
employee representatives and was included in the internal regulation 
of certain subsidiaries in France. It describes:
•
a clear commitment of the Chairman and CEO and of the Deputy 
CEO of the Group to compliance with competition law;
•
the key competition law risks for the Group and the key concepts 
of competition law;
•
the competition law rules relevant to the Group including 
anticompetitive agreements between competitors and exchange of 
information involving competitors (with several examples of unlawful 
practices and a focus on intra-group exchange of information and the 
need for specific wholesale/retail vigilance, as well as the participation 
to trade associations), vertical agreements and unlawful practices for 
companies in a situation of dominance;
•
specific rules of conduct and obligations to follow training.
Compliance
Own 
operations
Internal
Reporting 
(whistleblowing) Policy
In 2022, EssilorLuxottica released its Group Reporting Policy, 
in accordance with the European directive on the protection of 
whistleblowers, which is publicly available in 10 languages in its online 
reporting system SpeakUp. Where required, appropriate consultation 
of employee representatives was conducted. The policy is being 
progressively ‘localized’ to take into effect the specific transposition 
of the directive in the European Union; a North America version was also 
issued. The policy clearly and transparently describes the reporting 
process and the statutory protections granted to whistleblowers and 
facilitators, the principles of personal data protection for the purposes 
of the reporting process, and the governance, reporting and audit 
procedures.
Compliance
Own 
operations 
and value 
chain
Public
Document
Key content
Function
Scope
Availability
4.1.4
Governance
Compliance Organization
EssilorLuxottica’s Compliance function is responsible for 
preventing, identifying and managing risks related to business 
ethics in compliance with the law, and applicable local and 
international regulations (see Chapter  2 of the 2024 Universal 
Registration Document), and for establishing, developing and 
promoting a culture of compliance across the Group. The 
Compliance function is notably responsible for the following 
pillars: 
•
Ethics Compliance (anti-bribery and corruption, gift & 
hospitality, 
conflict 
of 
interest, 
lobbying, 
anti-money 
laundering, donations, sponsorship, Code of Ethics and 
Business Partners’ Code of Conduct);
•
Personal Data and Privacy;
•
International Sanctions and Export Control.
It closely collaborates with the Corporate Sustainability function, 
the Responsible Sourcing function and other functions in 
relation to Human Rights and Modern Slavery, Conflict Minerals 
and other matters related to the value chain compliance.
The Compliance function is also responsible for drafting and 
deploying, in collaboration with other functions, the Group 
compliance policies in those matters and the Group Code of 
Ethics and the Business Partners’ Code of Conduct, and 
oversees the Group whistleblowing system SpeakUp.
The Compliance function includes dedicated corporate teams 
corresponding to each of its pillars as well as dedicated 
compliance teams in each region, based in several countries 
and states in Europe, North America, Latin America and Asia 
Pacific who are responsible for localizing, where needed, and 
deploying the Group compliance programs in their respective 
regions. The Compliance department is also building specific 
expertise in each region to strengthen the Group healthcare 
compliance policies and a network of Compliance Liaisons 
embedded across the organization, through different business 
units and geographies, to be the local point of contact and 
advocate for the program. In 2024, as part of the Group 
integration process, GrandVision compliance and privacy teams 
were integrated into the scope of the Compliance function.
Since March 2024, the Compliance function directly reports to 
the Chief Financial Officer, and has direct access to the Group 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and the Deputy Chief 
Executive Officer. Moreover, the Head of Compliance regularly 
updates the Audit & Risk Committee of Board of Directors.
Competition law and antitrust compliance topics are managed 
by a separate specialized department reporting to the Chief 
Legal Officer, and in charge of developing and implementing 
the Group Competition law compliance policy and the related 
training.
Sustainability Report
Governance Information
136
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Governance body and Procedures 
and Control Management
As described in Chapter  4 of the 2024 Universal Registration 
Document, the Audit and Risks Committee of the Board of 
Directors is also in charge of reviewing compliance risks and 
program. The Head of Compliance attends the Audit and Risk 
Committee’s meetings and presents compliance updates twice 
a year, and has direct access to the Chairman of the Audit and 
Risk Committee. In 2024, the following topics were discussed 
with the Audit and Risks Committee:
•
update on the Compliance organization;
•
presentation of the Compliance key projects and strategic 
activities for 2024, for each compliance pillar; 
•
report on SpeakUp whistleblowing activities (anonymized);
•
update on personal data incidents;
•
update on the deployment of the Code of Ethics, 
compliance policies, SpeakUp and Conflict of interest new 
module;
•
update on the compliance training program and first results 
of the new e-learning trainings launched in 2024;
•
update on compliance with economic sanctions.
In 2024, the Procedures and Control Management department 
was created to further structure, centralize and enhance the 
consistency and review of corporate policies and procedures by 
the relevant subject matter experts. Directly reporting to the 
Chief Financial Officer, this function monitors the publication of 
policies 
and 
procedures 
and 
ensures 
their 
proper 
implementation across Group entities and geographies, 
through adequate communication, training, controls and 
quarterly updates with stakeholders.
Moreover, at the initiative of the Group Internal Audit function, 
a cross-functional task force of key functions including Internal 
Audit, Internal Control, Legal Affairs, Corporate Sustainability, 
Risk 
Management, 
Compliance, 
Procedures 
& 
Control 
Management and Human Resources, meets each quarter to 
enhance the collaboration on common interest topics such as 
corporate sustainability reporting, risk assessment, Human 
Rights, fraud prevention or whistleblowing. Other functions may 
be included in the participants if relevant to the projects on the 
agenda.
Internal stakeholder engagement
The Code of Ethics and the Business Partners’ Code of 
Conduct, as well as the policies described in this section, were 
created under the ownership of the Compliance function, with 
the involvement of several internal stakeholders including 
without 
limitation 
Human 
Resources, 
Legal, 
Corporate 
Sustainability, Asset protection, Risk Management, Health & 
Safety, Intellectual Property, Internal Audit, Internal Control and 
Corporate Communications functions. In particular, the Code of 
Ethics was submitted and approved by the Chairman and CEO 
and the Deputy CEO of the Group.
The Code of Ethics and most of the policies described in 
Section  4.1.3 Policies, as well as the internal reporting system 
SpeakUp, were also submitted to the information and/or 
consultation of employee representatives in several countries, 
including in France and Italy, and some of the French entities 
have incorporated the Code of Ethics in their internal 
regulation. 
Promotion of an ethical culture
The promotion of EssilorLuxottica’s ethical culture and policies 
is an ongoing process and relies on the below communication 
channels.
•
Publication of policies in several languages, consistently with 
the target population and the type of risk addressed by each 
policy. For instance, the Code of Ethics is currently available 
in 19 languages and the Business Partners’ Code of Conduct 
is available in 13 languages. The publication of the policies 
and of the Code of Ethics, as well as the launch of the 
internal reporting system SpeakUp, was announced globally 
through the internal communication systems (newsletters, 
digital windows) and dedicated campaigns are being 
conducted at corporate level and locally. 
•
Communication 
about 
the 
internal 
reporting 
system 
SpeakUp: communications and presentation of the SpeakUp 
reporting 
system 
are 
systematically 
associated 
to 
communication about the Code of Ethics. 
•
Tone from the top. The Code of Ethics is designed and 
deployed with the involvement of the Group’s top 
executives, starting with the Chairman and CEO and the 
Deputy CEO. The tone from the top and exemplarity is also 
expected from the middle management. The Compliance 
department regularly holds internal information sessions to 
executives and key managers of the Group in all regions. 
Communication kits and templates are also available, 
including standard communications, posters and Q&A for 
managers and employees.
•
Training of employees and other stakeholders. Managers are 
expected to ensure that employees in their teams complete 
the mandatory trainings (including, among others, training 
on Code of Ethics, on Anti-Bribery and Corruption). 
Reminders are also sent out to target populations to ensure 
completion of the training activities.
•
Development and test of an integrated conflict of interest’s 
declaration module, on the Group HR portal.
•
The listening program Your Voice – Culture Insights, as 
explained in Section 3.1.2.4 Processes for engaging with own 
workers and workers’ representatives, gathers valuable 
insights to measure Sense of Belonging, Culture adoption 
&  transformation and employee experience on their daily 
work-life.
Sustainability Report
Governance Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
137

--- PAGE BREAK ---

4.1.5
Actions, Resources 
and Procedures
EssilorLuxottica has set up multiple actions to ensure its ethical 
approach is respected and embedded in the Group’s culture. 
The actions are described in the following paragraphs and 
include the internal reporting platform SpeakUp along with the 
definition of a reporting procedure, defense lines to identify 
breaches of the Code of Ethics, anti-bribery and corruption 
programs and training initiatives.
4.1.5.1
SpeakUp reporting system
SpeakUp is an internal and secure online reporting platform 
hosted by a third-party vendor, accessible to all employees of 
the Group and external stakeholders (to the extent required 
notably by the Directive EU 2019/1937), via a computer or a 
mobile application, or (in 11 countries) by phone (external call 
center). SpeakUp is mentioned in the Code of Ethics and in the 
Business Partners’ Code of Conduct, and is public and easily 
accessible from the Group’s corporate website. Specific posters, 
available in 26 languages and displayed in offices, stores and 
operations, clearly mention how to report and on which matters 
it is possible to report, as well as the possibility to report 
anonymously and without retaliation. 
EssilorLuxottica is subject to legal requirements with regard to 
protection of whistleblowers, in accordance with the applicable 
laws transposing Directive EU 2019/1937 and with other 
applicable laws. The protections are extended to all employees 
as per EssilorLuxottica’s Reporting Policy.
SpeakUp allows the reporting of concerns relating to unlawful behavior or breaches of the Code of Ethics in the following areas:
Accounting & Financial
Accounting, auditing, financial reporting, falsification of records
Tax
Business Ethics
Anti-trust or competition law concerns
Bribery & corruption/gift & hospitality/lobbying
Conflict of interests
Human Rights violation/child labor/forced labor
Insider trading/stock exchange violation
Money laundering and terrorism trafficking
Personal data protection and privacy
Trade sanctions/export control/customs
Violation of anti-kickback/anti-gift laws (healthcare professionals)
HR, Diversity and Workplace 
Respect
Collective bargaining rights
Discrimination
Harassment and/or bullying
Retaliation of whistleblowers/reporters
Sexual harassment
Substance abuse
Wage/time theft/overtime
Workplace violence – Assault, threat, vandalism
EHS, Consumers & Products
Consumer protection
Product quality and safety
Violation of environmental laws
Workplace Health & Safety issues
Asset Protection
Brands or other intellectual property violation
Fraud and embezzlement
Security of IT, networks and information systems
Theft – theft of cash – misappropriation of assets
Sustainability Report
Governance Information
138
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The investigation process is described in detail in EssilorLuxottica’s Group Reporting Policy, which is publicly available on SpeakUp, 
and can be summarized as follows:
The Group’s Reporting Policy, available in several languages, 
provides 
employees 
with 
transparent 
information 
on 
whistleblower protections. The Group procedures protect the 
confidentiality of reports and allow anonymous reporting (where 
permitted by applicable legislation). As mentioned in its 
Reporting Policy, the Group also seeks to ensure impartiality of 
the investigation and the absence of conflict of interest of 
investigators.
The Group prohibits retaliation, as mentioned in its Reporting 
Policy, in the home page of the SpeakUp platform, in the Q&As 
circulated to employees and in its Code of Ethics and Business 
Partners’ Code of Conduct. The other measures to protect 
employees against retaliation – mentioned in the Code of Ethics 
and in multiple Group policies – include, for instance:
•
training of investigators and regular reminders, for example 
when investigators are appointed;
•
Group procedures and strict access management of the 
platform;
•
a protection of the confidentiality of the identity of the 
whistleblower through a careful planning and conduct of the 
investigation 
itself, 
and 
through 
standard 
operating 
procedures and standard interviews framework;
•
information of whistleblowers that if they feel retaliated 
against as a result of their report, they should contact the 
compliance department or file a new report;
•
setting of automatic reminders, where deemed necessary, in 
the SpeakUp platform, to proactively contact whistleblowers 
that may be at risk. 
If the internal investigation confirms the existence of 
misconduct, remedial and disciplinary actions may be taken. 
The SpeakUp tool will facilitate global data collection, enabling 
Group compliance programs to be adapted to the reports 
received. An anonymous annual report is submitted to the 
Group’s governance bodies.
Training programs for employees and investigators (employees 
from selected functions with specific skills, trained to analyze, 
conduct interviews, evaluate documents and prepare reports) 
have also been set up in 2024. The programs include training on 
the applicable regulations and whistleblower protections, 
practical guidance about how to conduct an investigation and 
use of the SpeakUp platform. 
Sustainability Report
Governance Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
139

--- PAGE BREAK ---

4.1.5.2
Business ethics and integrity
Identification of unlawful behavior or breaches 
of the Code of Ethics
Identification of breaches is possible through the three lines of 
defense set up in the organization and described in the Code of 
Ethics:
•
first line of defense: Managers. The purpose of the first line 
of defense is to conduct preventive controls prior to 
implementing decisions and transactions to ensure that the 
tasks that are inherent in an operational or support processes 
are performed in compliance with the Code of Ethics;
•
second line of defense: Control Functions (e.g., Internal 
Control, Risk Management, Compliance). The purpose of the 
second line of defense is to conduct controls at prescribed 
intervals or randomly on some or all the decisions or 
transactions to ensure that the first line of defense controls 
have been implemented properly;
•
third line of defense: Internal Audit. The purpose of the third 
line of defense is to perform periodic controls to ensure that 
the control system complies with the organization’s 
requirements and is implemented effectively and kept up 
to date. 
In addition to the SpeakUp reporting system described above, 
employees are encouraged to report concerns about unlawful 
behavior or ethical breaches to their line manager and/or to the 
Human Resources department, the upper-level manager or the 
Compliance function, as per the Company’s culture of dialogue 
and communication.
Procedures to investigate business conduct incidents
For incidents of alleged bribery and corruption, the Group seeks 
to apply similar investigation procedures as in its Reporting 
Policy, and to investigate them promptly, independently and 
objectively. Compliance and Internal Audit generally conduct 
such investigations, with appropriate legal privilege safeguards. 
When it comes to incidents requiring forensic research in 
information technology tools, specific access procedures are in 
place to protect personal data and privacy laws.
4.1.5.3
Prevention and detection of bribery 
and corruption
In the fight against corruption, the Group applies a zerotolerance policy and communicates this widely through its 
Group anti-corruption policy, based on its cartography of 
corruption risks, and its Code of Ethics. 
EssilorLuxottica’s Compliance function oversees the definition 
of guidelines for the prevention, identification and management 
of corruption-related risks through its Sapin II risk mapping. This 
mapping will be updated in 2025 to take into account the 
organizational changes within the Group and to involve 
GrandVision entities more closely. The Compliance function will 
adapt 
its 
internal 
prevention 
procedures 
accordingly. 
Investigations are managed according to EssilorLuxottica’s 
Group Reporting Policy.
Bribery and corruption allegations reported in SpeakUp, as well 
as business ethics and fraud or accounting allegations disclosed 
in SpeakUp, are reported (after anonymization) twice a year to 
the Group Statutory auditors and the Supervisory Bodies 
pursuant to D.Lgs. 231/2001 in Italy and to internal audit by the 
Compliance function. Serious business ethics violations (based 
on a threshold value agreed upon with the Audit and Risk 
Committee) are reported (after anonymization) to the Audit and 
Risk Committee.
The main functions considered most at risk in respect of 
corruption and bribery are inferred from EssilorLuxottica’s anticorruption risk map:
•
employees in touch with public officials (in charge of licenses 
and 
permits, 
taxes, 
customs, 
logistics, 
Research 
& 
Development);
•
commercial teams exposed to the risks of kickbacks or 
healthcare professionals;
•
sourcing and procurement functions; however, EssilorLuxottica 
has a very low exposure to public procurement;
•
real estate teams, facility management teams;
•
Human Resources teams;
•
joint ventures;
•
functions exposed to cash payments.
EssilorLuxottica has implemented anti-bribery and corruption 
programs as described before.
4.1.5.4
Training on business conduct 
and anti-corruption
The Compliance function provides several types of training, 
both face-to-face and via the Leonardo Group’s learning and 
development platform. Numerous face-to-face training courses 
were held in 2024, in particular on the fight against corruption in 
high-risk regions (Latin America, South-East Asia) and on the 
protection of personal data (specific training for certain 
functions deemed to be particularly exposed).For more details 
see Section  3.4.3.6 Actions and resources. In 2024, the Group 
gave priority to the following trainings on the Leonardo 
platform:
•
awareness sessions for Human Resources and executives at 
corporate or regional/local level;
•
privacy and data protection trainings (see Section  3.4.3.6 
Actions and resources).
Sustainability Report
Governance Information
140
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Training
Anti-corruption training included in the Code of Ethics 
training (launched Q2 2024)
Specific anti-corruption training
Targeted 
employees
All white-collar employees
All managers
Key content
•
Key principles, zero tolerance principle and risks 
of corruption
•
Practical examples related to bribery and 
corruption (public officials and commercial 
corruption/kickbacks)
•
Key rules of conduct including integrity due 
diligence
•
Reporting of violations through SpeakUp 
•
Key principles about gift and hospitality 
and conflict of interest
•
Key definitions, zero tolerance principle and risks 
of corruption
•
Prevention of the risk of corruption (notably 
public officials, gift & hospitality, donations & 
sponsorship, lobbying and political contributions)
•
Due diligence on third parties at risk and red flags
•
Documentation and record keeping
•
Reporting of violations through SpeakUp 
•
Quiz to validate the e-learning, and several risks 
scenarios and examples related to the activities 
of the Group
Number of 
employees trained 
in 2024
18,558
8,521
% of functions 
at risk covered
Information not available in the system, but 
by covering all white-collar employees, the Group will 
cover all functions at risk.
Information not available in the system, but by 
covering all managers, the Group will cover all 
functions at risk.
In 2025, specific training formats will be implemented to cover 
top managers and training format to members of the 
supervisory bodies are under discussion.
4.1.5.5
Management of relationships 
with suppliers
Information 
on 
Responsible 
Sourcing 
are 
provided 
in 
Section 3.2 ESRS S2 – Workers in the Value Chain.
Considering the international footprint of EssilorLuxottica, the 
payment terms for services and goods can vary significantly 
among regions. In addition, the general terms and conditions 
agreed through commercial agreements with suppliers might 
also affect the payment terms which, in some cases, have been 
extended for suppliers that decided to join the voluntary supply 
chain finance programs. Payables with extended payment 
terms, as described in Chapter 5 of the Registration Document, 
Note  23.2 Other Current Liabilities to the Consolidated 
Financial 
Statements, 
amount 
to 
€388 
million 
as 
of 
December  31, 2024, representing approximately 15% of the 
year-end Group’s trade payable.
The Group is engaged to comply with the applicable local 
regulations and to avoid or reduce instances of late payments 
toward its suppliers, without any distinction between large, 
medium, or small enterprises. At the same time, the Group is 
dedicating 
resources 
and 
investments 
to 
improve 
the 
monitoring of specific KPIs, promote trainings and workshops to 
employees, and fine-tuning the underlying processes and tools. 
With respect to legal proceedings for late payments, the Group 
is not aware of any material case currently outstanding.
New suppliers undergo a pre-qualification process and are 
being assessed on different criteria including on sustainability, 
e.g., through on-site responsible sourcing audits. Only upon 
approval, the supplier can start a business relationship with 
EssilorLuxottica.
4.1.5.6
Next steps
Building on the accomplishments described in this section, in 
2025, EssilorLuxottica’s priorities in the business ethics field 
include:
•
continuing the deployment of the Code of Ethics and Antibribery and corruption training, targeting a 85% completion 
rate;
•
deployment/enhancement of new anti-corruption training 
specific to functions at risk and for third parties at risk;
•
launch of a conflict of interest declaration campaign, for 
functions at risk, targeting all entities on SAP;
•
preparation of new policies relating to donations and 
sponsorship, lobbying and political contributions;
•
update and extension of the Sapin II anti-corruption risk 
mapping;
•
enhancing the third-party integrity due diligence process.
4.1.6
Targets and Metrics
Specific targets covering such ESG topic, including due 
diligence, will be set in due course.
To the best knowledge of EssilorLuxottica, there was no 
conviction or fines for violation of anti-corruption and antibribery laws in 2024.
Sustainability Report
Governance Information
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
141

--- PAGE BREAK ---

5
Methodology Note
Main Principles for Sustainability Data Reporting
EssilorLuxottica’s Sustainability Reporting Protocol defines the 
reporting principles below:
Workforce-Related Indicators
The workforce reported corresponds to the total number of 
Company employees and agency workers at the end of the 
reporting period. Workforce-related indicators cover 100% of 
the total Group workforce, excluding 2024 latest acquisitions 
(Heidelberg Engineering and Supreme).
As 
defined 
in 
the 
EssilorLuxottica 
Reporting 
Protocol, 
‘employee’ refers to a person having an employment contract 
directly with any entity of EssilorLuxottica; and ‘agency worker’ 
refers to a person having a contract with an outside company to 
work for EssilorLuxottica in one of its locations or elsewhere for 
a temporary period. Contractors and interns are excluded from 
the workforce indicators.
The breakdowns (by region, gender, category, contract type 
and age) are presented only for employees. Geographical areas 
designated for presenting the workforce by region are aligned 
with the areas identified for 2024 revenue disclosure.
‘Turnover rate’ represents the total number of permanent 
employees who left the Group over the reporting period. For 
2023, GrandVision was excluded but is included in 2024.
Locally managed data covers 93% of the Company’s headcount. 
Health & Safety Indicators
Health 
& 
Safety 
indicators 
relate 
to 
the 
Company’s 
manufacturing plants, lens laboratories and distribution centers 
(excluding entities acquired by EssilorLuxottica during 2024 and 
for which investments are needed to integrate Health & Safety 
reporting systems). For Operations and other activities, 
reported information covers 87% of the population. For retail 
activities, reported information covers 82% of the population, 
increasing significantly the coverage compared to last year. In 
2023, in fact, the Group started to include Brazil, US and Italy in 
the Health & Safety reporting, while in 2024 almost all the LatinAmerica retail entities are included and the EMEA countries 
integrated have been largely expanded. 
Health & Safety indicators cover both employees and agency 
workers.
The indicators applied reflect results of the Company’s 
Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) policies.
As defined in the Company’s Reporting Protocol:
•
the frequency rate is calculated as the number of workrelated injuries with lost days x 1,000,000/total number of 
hours worked during the reporting period;
•
the severity rate is calculated as the total number of lost days 
(calendar days) x 1,000/total number of hours worked during 
the reporting period;
•
the total recordable incident rate is calculated as the total 
number of recordable work-related injuries x 1,000,000/total 
number of hours worked during the reporting period;
•
the total number of hours worked is calculated as the actual 
hours worked from the clock-in system where applicable, and 
theoretical hours worked based on calculation of scheduled 
working days and average number of hours worked per day.
Environmental Indicators
Environmental indicators are collected to measure and monitor 
the environmental performance of the Company.
Energy
Energy consumption refers to all primary energy consumed 
during the reporting period. Related breakdowns are reported 
in kWh and disclosed in GWh. 
•
Operations: the Company collected all the available actual 
data during the reporting period and extrapolated the data 
for the residual entities not providing data. This approach 
enables the representation of the GHG emissions for the 
entire Group. The extrapolations have been performed 
based on the actual data collected, calculating the average 
consumption per headcount and per country.
•
Retail: All directly managed retail stores as of June 30, 2024 
(around 13,500 stores) are covered in the energy reporting. 
Data was reported for 10  months and extrapolated for the 
last two  months. When energy consumption data was not 
available for the full reporting period, data was extrapolated 
and estimated based on the average energy consumption 
per m² of other stores of the same country or the same 
region. 
In total, 19% of the energy consumption has been estimated.
Besides, the Group used the Ember database for the electricity 
mix of the different countries where it operates to disclose the 
energy types breakdown.
Sustainability Report
Methodology Note
142
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Water resources
Water withdrawal refers to all water drawn into the boundaries 
of the Company from all sources, for any use, over the course of 
the reporting year. The related breakdowns are reported in m3. 
•
Operations: the Company collected all the available actual 
data during the reporting period and extrapolated the data 
for the residual entities not yet providing data. The 
extrapolations have been performed based on the actual 
data collected, calculating the average consumption per 
headcount and per country. 10% of the consumption has 
been estimated, thus 90% is from direct measurement.
•
Retail activity water consumption is fully estimated based on 
benchmarking analysis and comparison with factors found in 
literature.
Resource use and circularity
Waste
•
Operations: waste generation refers to the total weight of 
waste evacuated or shipped out of the Company. Associated 
breakdowns are reported in metric tons. The Company 
collected all the available actual data during the reporting 
period and extrapolated the data for the residual entities not 
yet 
providing 
data. 
This 
approach 
enabled 
the 
representation of the GHG emissions for the entire Group. 
The extrapolations have been performed based on the 
actual data collected, calculating the average consumption 
per headcount and per country. 12% of the waste generation 
has been estimated.
•
Retail: waste generated are excluded from the consolidation.
Regarding the percentage of biological materials (and biofuels 
used for non-energy purposes) and percentage of secondary 
reused or recycled components, secondary intermediary 
products and secondary materials: 
•
the requested information has been calculated considering 
only plastic frames and plastic plano lenses perimeter – in 
terms of tons of materials purchased in 2024;
•
prescription lenses perimeter is excluded: the principle of 
exclusion is not linked to unavailability of data but rather to 
the fact that, consistently to what explained above, 
application of biological and recycled materials to medical 
devices like prescription lenses is still a challenge and 
EssilorLuxottica prioritizes quality. The main sustainability 
lever for prescription lenses is waste reduction;
•
for ‘biological materials’ the following materials for frames 
and plano lenses have been considered: Bio-based acetate, 
bio-recycled acetate, Bio-polyamide (PA) and bio-rubber 
(TPE);
•
for ‘secondary materials’ the following materials for frames 
and plano lenses have been considered: recycled acetate, 
recycled nylon, bio-circular polycarbonate and recylced 
Polymethyl methacrylate (PMMA).
As far as the rates of recyclable content in products are 
concerned, 
the 
KPI 
has 
been 
calculated 
taking 
into 
consideration 
EssilorLuxottica 
manufacturing 
output 
of 
sunglasses and prescription glasses, sun lenses and prescription 
lenses, expressed in tons of material. The percentage takes into 
account 
what 
is 
currently 
recyclable 
according 
to 
EssilorLuxottica standards (valorizing the materials), for each 
product category. Products that are not manufactured internally 
have been excluded. These are based on direct measurement.
Methodology for Calculating Greenhouse 
Gases (GHG) Emissions
In accordance with GHG Protocol, accounting and reporting 
standards 
for 
greenhouse 
gas 
emissions 
(http://
www.ghgprotocol.org GHG emissions) are calculated and 
reported according to three scopes: Scopes  1, 2 and 3. The 
GHG emissions reported include CO2, CH4, N20, HFC and PFC 
are measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (tCO2e). 
The GHG emissions are calculated considering the actual data 
collected during the reporting period and the extrapolated one 
for the entities that did not report data, as explained in the 
methodology of environmental indicators.
Scope 1
This involves three direct emission categories:
•
emissions from direct on-site stationary combustion of fossil 
fuels, such as gas or liquid fuel: Associated upstream 
emissions are considered Scope  3 emissions and thus 
excluded from Scope  1 emissions. GHG emission factors 
were applied in accordance with the Ecoinvent (v. 3.9.1), 
BEIS, DEFRA, and ISPRA databases.
•
emissions from mobile combustion related to company cars 
consuming fossil fuels: Emissions are calculated on 
contractual data provided by the main fleet management 
supplier. Information not available from this supplier (15%) 
has been extrapolated. The Group refers to the fuel 
consumed 
to 
calculate 
the 
emissions 
from 
mobile 
combustion related to company cars.
•
fugitive emissions from refrigerants leakages that may occur 
during the charging, recharging or disposal of refrigerant or 
air conditioning equipment on-site: Emissions are calculated 
considering the GWP of each F-gas from the IPCC Sixth 
Assessment Report (AR6). In the case of GWP not available in 
the IPCC report, the information provided directly from the 
F-gas supplier was considered. The consumption of 
Operations sites that did not report data (representing 
approximately 13% within the Scope) has been estimated 
based on headcount.Regarding Retail, 57% of data have 
been collected through actual records, while the residual 
part has been estimated based on the presence of cooling 
system and m² of stores. 
Sustainability Report
Methodology Note
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
143

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Scope 2
This relates to indirect emissions associated with the electricity 
consumption of the Company’s activities, including electric 
vehicles owned or controlled by the Company. Scope  2 
emissions were calculated according to both the location-based 
method and the market-based method of the GHG Protocol. A 
location-based method reflects average emissions intensity of 
grids for which energy consumption occurs (using mostly gridaverage emission factor data). The emission factors for 
electricity were updated in 2024 based on figures provided by 
the 3.10 and 3.9.1 versions of Ecoinvent. A market-based 
method reflects emissions from electricity that the Company has 
purposefully chosen.
The emission factors considered are annually updated referring 
to residual mix from Ecoinvent and AIB report. If the residual 
mix is not available, the emission factors from the locationbased method are used.
Scope 3 
Emissions Associated with Purchased Goods and Services
These emissions correspond to indirect emissions from the 
entire supply chain of purchased goods and services, from raw 
material extraction to the point of purchase by the Company, 
representing the 3.1 GHG Protocol’s category ‘Purchased 
goods and services’. 
In 2024, the category’s emissions associated with tangible 
products (goods) are computed based on the average-data 
method for 75% of the emissions, while the residual part is 
calculated for 15% based on a spend-based method and for 
10% based on supplier-specific method. 
Where possible, GHG emissions have been calculated using a 
mix of supplier-specific data and secondary data (industry 
averages, emission factors) obtained from Ecoinvent (v. 3.9.1), 
with elaboration based on scientific literature and/or expertise 
judgment or LCA studies for similar products when Ecoinvent 
data is not available.
The category’s emissions associated with intangible products 
(services) are computed based on the spend-based method. 
The emission factors considered derive from Exiobase (v. 3.3) 
and Base Empreinte®, Ecological Transition Agency of the 
Republic of France (Agence de la transition écologique – 
ADEME) (v. 22.0). 
Data on purchased goods are collected referring to a 10, 11 or 
12  months period, depending on their internal availability at 
year-end. For example, if 10  months data are collected, the 
remaining two are then proportionally extrapolated to cover 
12 months. In 2024, the percentage of emissions calculated with 
actual data amounts to 96%. The residual part has been 
extrapolated based on available actual data. Data on purchased 
services are collected referring to a 12 months period.
The data collected directly from suppliers cover the 7% of this 
category’s emissions, while the residual part is collected 
referring to internal sourcing report and ERP system.
Emissions Associated with Capital Goods
These emissions correspond to indirect emissions related to the 
production of capital goods purchased or acquired by the 
Company during the reporting year, representing the 3.2 GHG 
Protocol’s category ‘Capital goods’. EssilorLuxottica reports the 
total cradle-to-gate emissions of these goods in the year they 
are acquired, without depreciating or amortizing these 
emissions over time. The category’s emissions are fully 
computed with the spend-based method. Applied emission 
factors are sourced from Exiobase (v. 3.3) and measured in 
tonnes of CO2-equivalent per EUR (based on 2023 Euro value 
sourced from Central European Bank).
Emissions Associated with Fuel- and Energy-Related 
Activities
These emissions correspond to indirect emissions related to the 
consumption of fuel and energy in the Company’s activities, 
representing the 3.3 GHG Protocol’s category ‘Fuel-and-energy 
related activities’. This category’s emissions are computed on an 
average data method, referring to the data collected and 
extrapolated for the Scope  1 and Scope  2 calculation. The 
emission factors considered are annually updated referring to 
residual mix from Ecoinvent and AIB report. Emission factors 
used to calculate upstream emissions of purchased electricity 
do not include emissions from combustion, as emissions from 
combustion to generate electricity are accounted for in Scope 2. 
Transportation & Distribution loss rate is included.
The data considered for this category are the one collected for 
the environmental KPIs above mentioned.
Emissions Associated with Upstream Transportation 
Managed by EssilorLuxottica
These emissions correspond to indirect emissions related to the 
transportation of products and represent the main contributor 
for the Company to the 3.4 GHG Protocol’s category ‘Upstream 
transportation and distribution’. The emissions associated with 
upstream transportation managed by EssilorLuxottica are 
calculated on a Well-to-Wheel basis (WTW), to analyze the 
impact of using different energy vectors. The term Well-toWheel includes the underlying Tank-to-Wheel and Well-to-Tank 
analyses, defined as follows: i) Tank-to-Wheel (TTW) describes 
the use of fuel in the vehicle and emissions during driving; and 
ii) Well-to-Tank (WTT) describes the subrange of fuel supply, 
from production of the energy source (petrol, diesel, electricity, 
natural gas) to fuel supply (transport to the charging point or 
fuel pump).
The company follows the GLEC Framework 3.0 and is certified 
to use ISO 14083 standard.
Reporting of EssilorLuxottica transportation and freight is 
categorized by product type:
•
eyewear: finished frames, including both international and 
local flows;
•
lenses: finished and semi-finished lenses, including both 
international and local flows; and
•
other products/materials: including international and local 
flows for AFA (Apparel, Footwear and Accessories), POP 
(Point of Purchase), Spare Parts, Production Components, 
Goggles, Contact Lenses, Sun & Readers, Equipment, 
Instruments, Cases and Accessories.
Sustainability Report
Methodology Note
144
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Emissions related to the transportation and freight of each 
product type are also split per shipping mode: 
•
air shipping mode; and 
•
other shipping modes, including ocean, road and rail. 
For certain entities that did not report physical transportation 
data on the full 12  months, GHG emissions were estimated 
based on average of the available 2024 data (actual weight/
emission segmented by business unit, transport mode and 
flow). Emissions based on estimations accounted for less than 
5% 
of 
the 
total 
reported 
emissions 
associated 
with 
transportation. 
Emissions Associated with Upstream Transportation 
Managed by Suppliers
These emissions correspond to the Scope  1 and Scope  2 
emissions of third-party transportation companies (allocated to 
the reporting company that pays the service). The emissions 
associated with upstream transportation managed by suppliers 
are calculated with the distance-based method, which involves 
determining the mass, distance, and mode of each shipment, 
then applying the appropriate mass-distance emission factor for 
the vehicle used. The model has been developed using 
different online distance calculators (Google Maps, Distance 
calculator; www.searates.com). Emission factors applied derive 
from Ecoinvent (v. 3.9.1).
Data are collected referring to a 10, 11 or 12  months period, 
depending on their internal availability at year-end. For 
example, if 10 months data are collected, the remaining two are 
then proportionally extrapolated to cover 12  months. In case 
countries and freight types information were unknown, a 
worldwide distance and emission factor average was applied. In 
2024, the percentage of emissions calculated with actual data 
amounts to 96%, as per purchased products (goods) data. The 
residual part has been extrapolated based on available actual 
data.
The data collected directly from suppliers cover the 7% of this 
category’s emissions, while the residual part is collected 
referring to internal sourcing report and ERP system.
Emissions Associated with Waste Generated in Operations
These emissions correspond to indirect emissions related to the 
generation of waste in the Company’s activities, representing 
the 3.5  GHG Protocol’s category ‘Waste generated in 
operations’. This category’s emissions are computed on a 
average-data method, which involves estimating emissions 
based on total waste going to each disposal method (e.g., 
landfill) and average emission factors for each disposal method, 
and refer to the data collected for the Waste generation table 
reported in the Section 2.4.6 Targets and Metrics. To ensure the 
coverage of all the Company’s operations activities, the waste 
generated by entities that have not reported data in the 
reporting campaign was estimated based on the actual data 
available by country and region. The emission factors 
considered derive from Ecoinvent (v. 3.9.1).
Emissions Associated with Business Travel
These emissions correspond to indirect emissions related to all 
modes of transportation used for business travel, including air 
travel, rail travel, bus travel, and car rentals, representing the 3.6 
GHG Protocol’s category ‘Business travels’. For the specific case 
of EssilorLuxottica, the following modes of transportation are 
considered:
•
air travel: emissions from flights taken by employees for 
business purposes;
•
rail travel: emissions from train journeys.
Since only car rental expenses are available, and the mode of 
transportation represents a smaller amount compared to other 
types of travel, it has been excluded from the reporting 
boundaries. The impacts related to hotel accommodations are 
also excluded from the assessment. In both modes of 
transportation considered, the category’s emissions are 
calculated with the distance-based method.
Data are collected referring to a 10  months period. Thus, the 
percentage of emissions calculated with actual data amounts to 
83%, while the residual part has been extrapolated based on the 
available actual data.
Emissions Associated with Employees Commuting
These emissions represent the 3.7 GHG Protocol’s category 
‘Employees commuting and teleworking’. The reporting 
corresponds to indirect emissions related to the transportation 
of employees between their homes and their worksites, and 
considers all modes of transportation used by employees to 
commute. Since the indirect emissions associated with 
teleworking are considered as optional for the GHG Protocol 
and they are not particularly significant in terms of emissions for 
the Group, teleworking indirect emissions are excluded in this 
category.
To compute the category’s emissions an average-data method 
is applied, which involves estimating emissions from employee 
commuting based on statistical average data on commuting 
patterns. The statistical information considered refers to a 
limited number of countries, and the related results have been 
assumed valid for the worldwide data collected. Emission 
factors sourced by Ecoinvent (v. 3.9.1) are associated based on 
mode of transport statistics. This category’s emissions do not 
include any extrapolation.
Emissions Associated with Processing of Sold Products
These emissions correspond to indirect emissions related to the 
processing of sold intermediate products by third parties after 
the Company has sold them, representing the 3.10 GHG 
Protocol’s category ‘Processing of sold products’. The 
category’s emissions are calculated with the average-data 
method. Emission factors have been developed based on 
internal LCAs. This category’s emissions do not include any 
extrapolation.
Sustainability Report
Methodology Note
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
145

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Emissions Associated with Use of Sold Products
These emissions correspond to indirect emissions related to the 
use of goods and services sold by the Company in the reporting 
year, representing the 3.11 GHG Protocol’s category ‘Use of 
sold products’. For the specific case of EssilorLuxottica, only the 
usage of the equipment and instruments sold is considered 
(direct use-phase emissions). This category’s emissions include 
the Scope  1 and Scope  2 emissions of end users and are 
computed by applying a specific calculation method for direct 
use-phase emissions from products that directly consume 
energy, based on the revenue recorded per geographic area. 
This category’s emissions are based on actual data for 75%, 
while the residual part is calculated referring to the latest 
forecast figures.
Emissions Associated with End-of-Life Treatment 
of Sold Products
These emissions correspond to indirect emissions related to the 
waste disposal and treatment of products sold by the Company 
at the end of their life, representing the 3.12 GHG Protocol’s 
category ‘End-of-life treatment of sold products’. This category 
includes the total expected end-of-life emissions from all 
products sold in the reporting year. For the specific case of 
EssilorLuxottica, the biogenic emissions are not considered. The 
basic assumption is that the end-user disposes of the final 
product in general waste. 
If the end-of-life treatment of the sold product is known, an 
emission factor sourced from Ecoinvent (v. 3.9.1) and 
corresponding to the type of treatment and the primary 
constituent material of the product is assigned. If the treatment 
is unknown, the product is assumed to be incinerated with or 
without energy recovery, or directed to landfill (considering an 
average emission factor for these three different treatments 
regarding 
general 
non-hazardous 
waste). 
In 
2024, 
the 
percentage of emissions calculated with actual data amounts to 
98%, while the residual part has been extrapolated based on 
available actual data.
Emissions Associated with Franchises
These emissions correspond to indirect emissions related to the 
operation of franchises not included in Scope  1 or Scope  2, 
representing the 3.12 GHG Protocol’s category ‘Franchises’. An 
average-data method is used, which involves estimating 
emissions for each franchise, based on the average Scopes  1 
and 2 calculated for retail. This category’s emissions do not 
include any extrapolation.
Emissions Associated with Investments
These emissions correspond to indirect emissions related to the 
Company’s investments in the reporting year, not already 
included in Scope  1 or Scope  2, representing the 3.15 GHG 
Protocol’s category ‘Investments’. This category notably includes 
non-consolidated investments likely to contribute significantly to 
scope 3 emissions. The Group applies (i) the investment-specific 
method and (ii) the average data method to estimate Scope 1 
and Scope 2 emissions associated with investments depending 
on relevance and reliability of the data available.
The Company continuously seeks to improve the calculation of 
its carbon footprint for all the different GHG categories. Some 
areas of improvements comprehend the gathering of further 
supplier-specific data and emission factors, while identifying 
detailed emission factors for single materials within the different 
clusters of purchased and managed items. Wherever actual 
information are not available, the Group will continue to look for 
updated information from external databased, statistics and 
surveys. 
Methodology for EU Taxonomy 
Denominators
Annexes of the Delegated Act require calculating the 
proportion of Turnover, CapEx and OpEx associated with 
eligible and aligned activities. To accomplish this task, as stated 
in Section 2.5 EU Taxonomy Disclosure, the Group identified its 
eligible activities, assessed which were in line with alignment 
criteria and then calculated the three KPIs. 
The next paragraphs present in detail what has been foreseen 
by provision of Annexes to the Commission Delegated 
Regulation (EU) 2178/2021 in terms of accounting items related 
to the KPIs that must be reported by non-financial undertakings 
in the sustainability report – as the approach retained by 
EssilorLuxottica. 
Turnover
Turnover KPI as described by the regulation is to be calculated 
as the part of net turnover derived from products or services 
associated with eligible and/or aligned Taxonomy activities 
divided by the net turnover (denominator).
Numerator: The analysis was done in compliance with the six 
environmental objectives, namely: climate change mitigation, 
climate change adaptation, the use and protection of water and 
marine resources, transition to a circular economy, prevention 
and reduction of pollution, protection and restoration of 
biodiversity and ecosystems. As mentioned in Section  2.5 EU 
Taxonomy Disclosure, EssilorLuxottica’s core economic activities 
are not described in the current version of the Taxonomy 
regulation and are not included in the Climate Delegated Act. 
Therefore, they are not considered as ‘eligible’ or ‘aligned’. 
Consequently, for 2024 as for 2023, the Group did not generate 
any turnover eligible or aligned with the EU Taxonomy 
Regulation. 
Denominator: Net turnover is defined as the amounts derived 
from the sale of products and provision of services after 
deducting sales rebates and value-added taxes directly linked to 
turnover. 
Following 
the 
description, 
KPI 
denominator 
corresponds to the line-item Revenue presented in the Chapter 5 
of the 2024 Universal Registration Document, Section  5.1.1 
Consolidated Statement of Profit or Loss.
Sustainability Report
Methodology Note
146
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Operating Expenses: OpEx
Denominator: 
For 
the 
calculation 
of 
the 
OpEx 
KPI 
denominator(1) the Group considered the share of costs falling 
into the categories mentioned by the Regulation: noncapitalized R&D, day-to-day servicing of assets, building 
renovation measures, short term leases, maintenance and 
repairs. For the calculation of the denominator, the following 
categories have been excluded(2): i) overheads, ii) raw materials, 
iii) cost of employee operating the machine, iv) cost of 
managing R&D projects and v) electricity, fluids or reagents 
needed to operate property plants and equipment. 
For all categories of the OpEx KPI, both external (outsourced 
activities) and internal (labor, materials and tools) costs were 
considered. Costs related to G&A (General & Administrative) 
have 
been 
excluded, 
including 
only 
expenses 
directly 
attributable to a specific asset.
Based on the analysis of data extracted from management and 
accounting tools, Group controllers were able to isolate the 
share of costs falling into the categories mentioned by the 
Regulation.
After analysis, OpEx represents less than 10% of the total Group 
consolidated operating expenses, and for this reason, and as for 
2023, the Group considered the indicator as not material. 
Therefore, the numerator was not calculated.
Capital Expenditure: CapEx
Numerator: For each activity and each project identified as 
eligible, technical criteria were reviewed internally to ensure the 
alignment (see table in Section 2.5 EU Taxonomy Disclosure).
Denominator: 
For 
the 
calculation 
of 
the 
CapEx 
KPI 
denominator(3), the Group considered the increases of the 
period related to Property Plant and Equipment (PP&E), 
Intangible Assets (excluding goodwill) and Right of Use Assets 
(RoU), as presented in Chapter  5 of the 2024 Universal 
Registration 
Document, 
Section 
5.1.6 
(Notes 
to 
the 
Consolidated Financial  Statements, Note  10 Goodwill and 
Other Intangible Assets, Note  11 Property, Plant and 
Equipment, and Note 12 Leases). As required by the Regulation, 
the values considered correspond to the line items Additions 
and Business combinations of the tables disclosed in Notes 10, 
11 and 12, thus excluding the effects resulting from 
amortization, depreciation, impairment losses, divestment, 
assets classified as held for sale, translation differences and 
other. 
As mentioned in the Section 1.1 Basis for Preparation, the new 
acquisitions were excluded from the current sustainability 
reporting, thus Turnover, CapEx and OpEx KPIs related to the 
new acquisitions during the 2024 were considered as not EU 
Taxonomy eligible due to inability to carry out a detailed 
analysis. Starting from 2025, the new acquisitions will be an 
integral part of the Group taxonomy eligibility and alignment 
analysis.
Sustainability Report
Methodology Note
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
147
(1) 
The proportion of OpEx shall be calculated as the numerator divided by the denominator associated with assets/processes associated with taxonomy 
aligned activities. The denominator shall cover direct non-capitalized costs that relate to: Research and development, building renovation measures, 
short-term lease, maintenance and repair, the day-to-day servicing of assets.
(2) 
FAQ Published by the EU Commission on EU Taxonomy on February 2, 2022.
(3) 
The proportion of CapEx shall cover: the additions to tangible and intangible assets during the financial year and the additions to tangible and 
intangible assets resulting from business combinations.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

6
Report on the Certification of Sustainability 
Information and Verification of the Disclosure 
Requirements Under Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 
2020/852
This is a translation into English of the statutory auditors’ report on the sustainability information and verification of the disclosure 
requirements under article 8 of regulation (eu) 2020/852 of the Company issued in French and it is provided solely for the convenience 
of English-speaking users.
This statutory auditors’ report includes information required by European regulation and French law.
This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards 
applicable in France.
For the year ended December 31st, 2024
To the Annual Shareholders' Meeting of EssilorLuxottica,
This report is issued in our capacity as Statutory Auditor of EssilorLuxottica. It covers the sustainability information and the information 
required by Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852, relating to the year ended December 31st, 2024 included in the Group management 
report and set out in Section 6 Sustainability Report of the Universal Registration Document.
Pursuant to Article L. 233-28-4 of the French Commercial Code, EssilorLuxottica is required to include the above mentioned 
information in a separate section of its management report. This information enables to understand the impact of the activity of 
EssilorLuxottica on sustainability matters, as well as the way in which these matters influence the development of its business, 
performance and position. Sustainability matters include environmental, social and governance matters.
Pursuant to Article L. 821-54 of the aforementioned Code our responsibility is to carry out the procedures necessary to issue a 
conclusion, expressing limited assurance, on:
•
compliance with the sustainability reporting standards adopted pursuant to Article 29 ter of Directive (EU) 2013/34 of the European 
Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2022 (hereinafter ESRS for European Sustainability Reporting Standards) of the 
process implemented by EssilorLuxottica to determine the information reported, and compliance with the requirement to consult 
the social and economic committee provided for in the sixth paragraph of Article L. 2312-17 of the Labour Code;
•
compliance of the sustainability information included in Section 6 Sustainability Report with the requirements of article L. 233- 28-4 
of the French Commercial Code, including the ESRS; and
•
compliance with the reporting requirements set out in Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852.
This engagement is carried out in compliance with the ethical rules, including independence, and quality control rules prescribed by 
the French Commercial Code.
It is also governed by the H2A guidelines on ‘Limited assurance engagement on the certification of sustainability information and 
verification of disclosures requirements set out in Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852’.
In the three separate parts of the report that follow, we present, for each of the parts of our engagement, the nature of the procedures 
that we carried out, the conclusions that we drew from these procedures and, in support of these conclusions, the elements that to 
which we paid particular attention and the procedures that we carried out with regard to these elements. We draw your attention to 
the fact that we do not express a conclusion on any of these elements taken in isolation and that the procedures described should be 
considered in the overall context of the formation of the conclusions issued in respect of each of the three parts of our engagement.
Finally, where deemed necessary to draw your attention to one or more disclosures of sustainability information provided by 
EssilorLuxottica in the Group management report, we have included an emphasis of matter paragraph hereafter.
Sustainability Report
Report on the Certification of Sustainability Information and Verification of the Disclosure Requirements 
Under Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852
148
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The Limits of our Engagement
As the purpose of our engagement is to provide limited assurance, the nature (choice of techniques), extent (scope) and timing of the 
procedures are less than those required to obtain reasonable assurance.
Furthermore, this engagement does not provide guarantee regarding the viability or the quality of the management of 
EssilorLuxottica, in particular it does not provide an assessment, of the relevance of the choices made by EssilorLuxottica in terms of 
action plans, targets, policies, scenario analyses and transition plans, which would go beyond compliance with the ESRS reporting 
requirements.
It does, however, allow us to express conclusions regarding the entity’s process for determining the sustainability information to be 
reported, the sustainability information itself, and the information reported pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852, as to the 
absence of identification or, on the contrary, the identification of errors, omissions or inconsistencies of such importance that they 
would be likely to influence the decisions that readers of the information subject to this engagement might make.
Our engagement does not provide assurance on any comparative data.
Compliance with the ESRS of the Process Implemented by EssilorLuxottica 
to Determine the Information Reported, and Compliance with the 
Requirement to Consult the Social and Economic Committee Provided 
for in the Sixth Paragraph of Article L. 2312-17 of the Labour Code
Nature of Procedures Carried Out
Our procedures consisted in verifying that:
•
the process defined and implemented by EssilorLuxottica has enabled, in accordance with the ESRS, to identify and assess its 
impacts, risks and opportunities related to sustainability matters, and to identify the material impacts, risks and opportunities, that 
are disclosed in Sustainability report of the Group, and
•
the information provided on this process also complies with the ESRS.
We also checked the compliance with the requirement to consult the social and economic committee.
Conclusion of the Procedures Carried Out
On the basis of the procedures we have carried out, we have not identified any material errors, omissions or inconsistencies regarding 
the compliance of the process implemented by EssilorLuxottica with the ESRS.
Concerning the consultation of the social and economic committee provided for in the sixth paragraph of Article L. 2312-17 of the 
Labour Code, we confirm that the requirement has been fulfilled.
Emphasis of Matter
Without qualifying the conclusion expressed above, we draw your attention to the information provided in paragraph Boundaries of 
the sustainability report of Section 1.1.1 General Basis for Preparation of Sustainability Statements of the Group sustainability report 
which sets out the reasons for excluding the end-of-year acquisitions from the scope of double materiality analysis.
Elements that Received Particular Attention
We set out below the elements that have been the subject of particular attention on our part as regards the compliance with the ESRS 
of the process implemented by EssilorLuxottica to determine the information reported. 
Concerning the identification of stakeholders
Information on the identification of stakeholders is set out in Section 1.3.2 Interests and Views of Stakeholders and 1.4.1.2 Context 
analysis and identification of potential ESG topics of the Sustainability report of the Group. 
We obtained an understanding of the analysis conducted by the entity to identify: 
•
stakeholders, who can affect or be affected by the entities within the scope of the information, through their activities and direct or 
indirect business relationships across the value chain;
•
the primary users of sustainability statements (including the primary users of the financial statements). 
Sustainability Report
Report on the Certification of Sustainability Information and Verification of the Disclosure Requirements 
Under Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
149

--- PAGE BREAK ---

We interviewed management and/or the persons we deemed appropriate and inspected the available documentation. Our work 
consisted primarily in: 
•
assessing the relevance of the main stakeholders identified by the entity in view of the nature of its activities and its geographical 
location, taking into account its business relationships and value chain;
•
exercising professional scepticism in assessing the representative nature of the stakeholders identified by the entity;
•
assessing the appropriateness of the description given in Section 1.3.2 Interests and Views of Stakeholders of the Sustainability 
report of the Group, in particular with regard to the procedures put in place by the entity to collect information on the interests and 
views of stakeholders and the commitments made by the entity.
Concerning the identification of impacts, risks and opportunities (‘IRO’)
Information on the identification of impacts, risks and opportunities is provided in Section 1.4.1 Description of the Processes 
to Identify and Assess Material Impacts, Risks and Opportunities – EssilorLuxottica Double Materiality Assessment of the Sustainability 
report of the Group. 
We gained an understanding of the process implemented by the entity to assess actual or potential impacts – both negative and 
positive – risks and opportunities (IRO), in relation to the sustainability matters mentioned in paragraph AR 16 of ESRS 1, ‘Application 
requirements’, and where applicable, those specific to the entity, as presented in Section 1.4.1.6 Double materiality assessment 
outcome of the Sustainability report of the Group. 
In particular, we assessed the approach taken by the entity to determine its impacts and dependencies, which may be a source of risks 
or opportunities, including the dialogue engaged, where appropriate, with stakeholders. 
We also assessed the completeness of the activities included in the scope used to identify IROs.
We familiarised ourselves with the entity's mapping of identified IROs as presented in Section 1.4.1.6 Double materiality assessment 
outcome including a description of their distribution within the entity's own operations and value chain, as well as their time horizon 
(short, medium or long term), and assessed the consistency of this mapping with our knowledge of the entity and, where applicable, 
with the risk analyses conducted by Group entities.
We carried out the following procedures: 
•
assessed the top-down approach used by the entity to collect information in respect of subsidiaries;
•
assessed the entity has taken into account the list of sustainability matters set out in ESRS 1 (AR 16) in its analysis;
•
assessed the consistency of actual and potential impacts, risks and opportunities identified by the entity with available industry 
analyses;
•
assessed the consistency of the actual and potential impacts, risks and opportunities identified by the entity, in particular those 
specific to the entity since they are not covered or are insufficiently covered by the ESRS standards, with our knowledge of the 
entity;
•
assessed how the entity has taken into account the different time horizons, particularly with regard to climate issues;
•
assessed whether the entity has taken into account the risks and opportunities that may arise from both past and future events as a 
result of its own activities or business relationships, including the actions taken to manage certain impacts or risks;
•
assessed whether the entity has taken into account its dependence on natural, human and/or social resources in identifying risks 
and opportunities. 
Concerning the assessment of impact materiality and financial materiality
Information on the assessment of impact materiality and financial materiality is provided in Section 1.4.1.4 Assessment and 
identification of material impacts, risks and opportunities of the Sustainability report of the Group. 
Through interviews with management and the examination of available documentation, we obtained an understanding of the process 
implemented by the entity to assess impact materiality and financial materiality, and assessed its compliance with the criteria defined 
in ESRS 1. 
In particular, we assessed the way in which the entity established and applied the materiality criteria defined in ESRS 1, including those 
relating to the setting of thresholds, in order to determine the following material information disclosures: 
•
metrics relating to material IROs identified in accordance with the relevant ESRS standards; 
•
entity-specific disclosures.
Sustainability Report
Report on the Certification of Sustainability Information and Verification of the Disclosure Requirements 
Under Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852
150
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Compliance of the Sustainability Information Included in Section 6 
Sustainability Report of the Universal Registration Document with the 
Requirements of Article L. 233-28-4 of the French Commercial Code, 
Including the ESRS.
Nature of Procedures Carried Out
Our procedures consisted in verifying that, in accordance with legal and regulatory requirements, including the ESRS:
•
the disclosures provided enable to understand the general basis for the preparation and governance of the sustainability 
information included in Section 6 of the Sustainability report of the Group, including the basis for determining the information 
relating to the value chain and the exemptions from disclosures used;
•
the presentation of this information ensures its readability and understandability;
•
the scope chosen by EssilorLuxottica for providing this information is appropriate; and
•
on the basis of a selection, based on our analysis of the risks of non-compliance of the information provided and the expectations 
of users, this information does not contain any material errors, omissions or inconsistencies, i.e., that are likely to influence the 
judgement or decisions of users of this information.
Conclusion of the Procedures Carried Out
Based on the procedures we have carried out, we have not identified material errors, omissions or inconsistencies regarding the 
compliance of the sustainability information included in the Sustainability report of the Group with the requirements of Article 
L.233-28-4 of the French Commercial Code, including the ESRS.
Emphasis of Matter(s)
Without qualifying the conclusion expressed above, we draw your attention to the information provided 6.1.1.1 General basis for 
preparation of sustainability statements in the Sustainability report of the Group which sets out:
•
the inherent uncertainties of the first year of ESRS implementation,
•
the limitations related to the scope to collect the data, in particular concerning the acquisitions of Supreme and Heidelberg that 
occurred at the end of the fiscal year,
•
the reasons for some indicators, notably those provided for by the ESRS E2 Pollution thematic standard, to not be or to be partially 
published.
Elements that Received Particular Attention
Information published in relation to greenhouse gas emissions, transition plan for climate change mitigation and metrics related to the 
company’s waste generation as mentioned in Sections 2.1.8 Total GHG Emissions (Scopes 1, 2 and 3), 2.1.3 Transition Plan for Climate 
Change Mitigation and in sub-section Waste of Section 2.4.6 Targets and Metrics of the Sustainability report of the Group. 
We set out below the elements that have been the subject of particular attention on our part as regards the compliance of this 
information with the ESRS.
With regard to the information published on the greenhouse gas emissions assessment: 
•
we familiarised ourselves with the internal control and risk management procedures implemented by the entity to ensure the 
compliance of the reported information;
•
we assessed the consistency of the scope considered for the greenhouse gas emissions assessment with the scope of the 
consolidated financial statements, upstream and downstream value chain; 
•
we familiarised ourselves with the greenhouse gas emissions inventory protocol used by the entity to draw up its greenhouse gas 
emissions assessment, and checked its application, for a selection of emissions categories and sites, for Scope 1 and Scope 2. 
•
with regard to Scope 3 emissions, we:
•
assessed the justification for the inclusion and exclusion of the various categories and the transparency of the disclosures 
provided in this respect,
•
assessed the process of gathering information, 
•
reconciled the base data with accounting, when the underlying information was from accounting and financial systems;
Sustainability Report
Report on the Certification of Sustainability Information and Verification of the Disclosure Requirements 
Under Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
151

--- PAGE BREAK ---

•
we assessed, with the help of our experts, the appropriateness of the emission factors used and the calculation of the related 
conversions, as well as the calculation and extrapolation assumptions, taking into account the uncertainty inherent in the state of 
scientific or economic knowledge and the quality of the external data;
•
we met with management to understand the main changes in the entity's activities during the financial year that could have an 
impact on the greenhouse gas emissions assessment; 
•
for physical data (such as energy consumption), we reconciled, using sampling techniques, the underlying data used to draw up the 
greenhouse gas emissions assessment with supporting documents;
•
we performed analytical procedures;
•
with regard to the estimates that we considered to be critical, used by the entity to prepare its greenhouse gas emissions 
assessment:
•
through interviews with management, we obtained an understanding of the method used to calculate the estimated data and 
the information sources on which the estimates were based; 
•
we assessed whether the methods were applied consistently or whether there were any changes since the previous period, and 
whether these changes were appropriate; 
•
we verified the accuracy of the calculations used to prepare this information. 
With regard to our procedures regarding the Transition plan for climate change mitigation, our work mainly consisted of: 
•
assessing whether the information published in the transition plan meets ESRS E1 requirements with an appropriate description of 
the plan’s underlying key assumptions, it being understood that we are not required to express a conclusion on the 
appropriateness or the level of ambition of the transition plan’s objectives; 
•
assessing whether this transition plan reflects the commitments made by the entity as stated in the minutes of its governance 
bodies' meetings; 
•
assessing the consistency of the key information provided under the transition plan, including decarbonisation levers; 
•
assessing whether the transition plan is in line with the strategic plan as approved by the governing bodies and the entity's financial 
planning;
•
verifying that the entity has carried out a qualitative assessment of locked-in GHG emissions and that it has taken this into account 
in its adaptation plan. 
With regard to the information published on the Company’s waste generation: 
•
we familiarised ourselves with the internal control and risk management procedures implemented by the entity to ensure the 
compliance of the reported information;
•
we assessed the consistency of the scope considered for the Company’s waste generation assessment of the calculation methods 
regarding waste related metrics as presented in the Methodology Note in Section 6.5 of the sustainability report with the scope of 
the consolidated financial statements;
•
we familiarised ourselves with the Company’s waste generation inventory protocol used by the entity ( (hazardous, radioactive and 
non-hazardous), valorized and non-recycled for a selection of waste categories and sites.
•
with regard to each category of waste:
•
we assessed the justification for the inclusion and exclusion of the various categories and the transparency of the disclosures 
provided in this respect,
•
we assessed the process of gathering information, 
•
we reconciled the base data with accounting, when the underlying information was from accounting and financial systems;
•
we met with management to understand the main changes in the entity's activities during the financial year that could have an 
impact on the Company’s waste generation assessment; 
•
for physical data, we reconciled, using sampling techniques, the underlying data used to draw up the Company’s waste generation 
assessment with supporting documents;
•
we performed analytical procedures;
•
with regard to the estimates that we considered to be critical, used by the entity to prepare its waste generation indicators:
•
through interviews with management, we obtained an understanding of the method used to calculate the estimated data and 
the information sources on which the estimates were based,
•
we assessed whether the methods were applied consistently or whether there were any changes since the previous period, and 
whether these changes were appropriate;
•
we verified the accuracy of the calculations used to prepare this information.
Sustainability Report
Report on the Certification of Sustainability Information and Verification of the Disclosure Requirements 
Under Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852
152
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Compliance with the Reporting Requirements Set Out in Article 8 
of Regulation (EU) 2020/852
Nature of Procedures Carried Out
Our procedures consisted in verifying the process implemented by EssilorLuxottica to determine the eligible and aligned nature of 
the activities of the entities included in the consolidation.
They also involved verifying the information reported pursuant to Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852, which involves checking:
•
the compliance with the rules applicable to the presentation of this information to ensure that it is readable and understandable;
•
on the basis of a selection, the absence of material errors, omissions or inconsistencies in the information provided, i.e., 
information likely to influence the judgement or decisions of users of this information.
Conclusion of the Procedures Carried Out
Based on the procedures we have carried out, we have not identified any material errors, omissions or inconsistencies relating to 
compliance with the requirements of Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852.
Elements that Received Particular Attention
We have determined that there were no such elements to report. 
Neuilly-sur-Seine, February 21, 2025
The Statutory Auditor 
French original signed by
PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit
Stéphane Basset
Pierre-Olivier Etienne
Sustainability Report
Report on the Certification of Sustainability Information and Verification of the Disclosure Requirements 
Under Article 8 of Regulation (EU) 2020/852
EssilorLuxottica òò 2024 Sustainability Report
153

--- PAGE BREAK ---