HSBC Holdings plc
Annual Report and
Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Opening up a world of opportunity 
Our ambition is to be the preferred international 
financial partner for our clients.
Our purpose, ambition and values reflect our 
strategy and support our focus on execution.
Read more on our values and strategy on pages 5 and 11. 
Contents
Strategic report
1 
Performance in 2024
2 
Highlights
4 
Who we are
6 
Group Chairman’s shareholder letter 
8 
Group CEO’s shareholder letter
11 
Our strategy
15 
ESG overview
20 
Board decision making and 
engagement with stakeholders 
(Section 172(1) statement) 
24 
Remuneration
25 
Financial overview
30 
Global businesses
37 
Risk overview
40 
Long-term viability and going 
concern statement
Environmental, social and
governance (‘ESG’) review
42 
Environmental
63 
Social
73 
Governance
Financial review
86 
Financial summary
98 
Global businesses and legal 
 entities
120 Reconciliation of alternative 
performance measures
Risk review
127 Our approach to risk
131 Top and emerging risks
137 Our material banking risks
Corporate governance report
237 Biographies of Directors and 
 senior management
259 Board committees
279 Directors’ remuneration report
Financial statements
330 Independent auditors’ report 
341 Financial statements
353 Notes on the financial statements
Additional information
439 Shareholder information
454 Abbreviations
This Strategic Report was approved by the 
Board on 19 February 2025. 
Sir Mark E Tucker 
Group Chairman
A reminder 
The currency we report in is US dollars. 
Our approach to ESG reporting
We embed our ESG reporting and Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) within 
our Annual Report and Accounts. Our TCFD 
disclosures are highlighted with the following 
symbol: 
Use of alternative performance 
measures
We supplement our IFRS Accounting Standards 
figures with non-IFRS Accounting Standards 
measures used by management internally that 
constitute alternative performance measures under 
European Securities and Markets Authority guidance 
and non-GAAP financial measures defined in and 
presented in accordance with US Securities and 
Exchange Commission rules and regulations.
These measures are highlighted with the following 
symbol: 
 Further explanation may be found on page 29.
Targets and forward guidance
We do not reconcile our forward guidance on RoTE 
excluding the impact of notable items, target basis 
operating expenses, dividend payout ratio target 
basis or banking net interest income (‘banking NII’) 
to their equivalent reported measures.
For our financial targets, medium-term is defined as 
between three to five years, and long term as five to 
six years, from 1 January 2025.
See page 2 for details on our forward guidance 
and outlook.
None of the websites referred to in this Annual Report 
and Accounts 2024 for the year ended 31 December 
2024 (including where a link is provided), and none of 
the information contained on such websites, are 
incorporated by reference in this report.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
linkedin.com/company/hsbc
Cover image: Opening up a world of opportunity
This year’s annual report marks 160 years since our founding and 
celebrates our rich history of shaping finance around the world. To 
mark this occasion, our special anniversary cover encapsulates the 
depth and the breadth of our services, and our commitment to 
connecting people and businesses through our global network – 
creating opportunities, driving progress and pioneering new ideas. 
TCFD

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Performance in 2024
HSBC is one of the largest banking and financial services 
organisations in the world.
We have a clear strategy to deliver revenue and profit growth, 
enhance customer service and create long-term shareholder value.
Financial performance 
indicators
Our financial performance indicators 
demonstrate our continued focus on the 
delivery of sustainable returns for our 
shareholders. They also provide insight into 
the performance that has driven the 
outcomes of our financial targets.
Read more on our financial performance in 2024 
on pages 2 and 27. 
For an explanation of performance against our 
key Group financial targets, see page 25.
For a reconciliation of alternative performance 
measures to their reported equivalents, see 
page 124.
Return on average tangible equity 
14.6%
(2023: 14.6%)
Return on average tangible equity excluding 
notable items of 16.0% (2023: 16.2%) 
 
Profit before tax
$32.3bn
(2023: $30.3bn)
Net interest income 
$32.7bn
(2023: $35.8bn)
Banking net interest income of $43.7bn 
(2023: $44.1bn)
Operating expenses
$33.0bn
(2023: $32.1bn)
Target basis operating expenses up 5% to 
$32.6bn
Common equity tier 1 capital ratio
14.9%
(2023: 14.8%)
Dividend per share in respect of 2024
$0.87
Inclusive of a special dividend of $0.21 per 
share.
(2023 dividend per share: $0.61) 
Strategic performance 
indicators 
Our strategy supports our ambition of being 
the preferred international financial partner for 
our clients.
We are committed to building a business for 
the long term, developing relationships that 
last. 
Read more on our strategy on pages 11 to 13.
Read more on multi-jurisdictional client revenue 
on page 125.
Read more on how we set and define our ESG 
metrics on page 17.
Read more on our definition of sustainable 
finance and investment on page 45.
Grow our Wealth business 
$64bn
Net new invested assets generated in 2024, 
of which $47bn were in Asia.
(2023: $84bn generated, of which $47bn 
were in Asia)
Serve our clients internationally
62%
Wholesale multi-jurisdictional client revenue 
 
is generated by clients banking with us across 
multiple markets. 
(2023: 61%)
Gender representation
34.6%
Senior leadership roles held by women.
(2023: 34.1%)
Sustainable finance and investment
$393.6bn
Cumulative total provided and facilitated since 
1 January 2020.
(2023: $294.4bn)
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
1

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Highlights
Financial performance reflected business growth, particularly in Wealth. 
We continued to make progress in reshaping the Group and we have announced 
a simplification of our organisation structure to accelerate strategic delivery. 
Financial performance (vs 2023)
– Profit before tax rose by $2.0bn to $32.3bn, 
including a $1.0bn net favourable impact from 
notable items. In 2024, these included a gain of 
$4.8bn on the disposal of our banking business 
in Canada, the impacts of the disposal of our 
business in Argentina, comprising a $1.0bn loss 
on disposal, and the recycling of foreign 
currency reserve losses and other reserves of 
$5.2bn. In 2023, notable items included an 
impairment of $3.0bn on our associate, Bank of 
Communications Co., Limited (‘BoCom’), 
disposal losses of $1.0bn on Treasury 
repositioning and risk management and a 
$1.6bn gain recognised on the acquisition of 
Silicon Valley Bank UK Limited (‘SVB UK’). 
Profit after tax increased by $0.4bn to 
$25.0bn.
– Constant currency profit before tax 
excluding notable items increased by 
$1.4bn to $34.1bn, primarily reflecting 
revenue growth in Wealth and Personal 
Banking (‘WPB’) and Global Banking and 
Markets (‘GBM’), partly offset by a rise in 
operating expenses, in line with our cost 
growth targets. 
– Revenue of $65.9bn was stable. There was 
growth in revenue from higher customer 
activity in Wealth in WPB, and in Equities and 
Securities Financing in GBM. In addition, 2023 
included disposal losses of $1.0bn related to 
Treasury repositioning and risk management. 
This was offset by the net adverse impact of 
certain strategic transactions described above, 
as well as a $0.2bn loss on the early 
redemption of legacy securities. 
– Constant currency revenue excluding 
notable items rose by $2.9bn to $67.4bn.
– Net interest income (‘NII’) decreased by 
$3.1bn, reflecting the impact of business 
disposals and higher funding costs associated 
with the redeployment of our commercial 
surplus to the trading book, where the related 
revenue is recognised in ‘net income from 
financial instruments held for trading or 
managed on a fair value basis‘, partly offset by 
higher NII in HSBC UK, reflecting the benefit 
of our structural hedge. Banking NII of 
$43.7bn fell by $0.4bn or 1% compared 
with 2023, as increased deployment of our 
commercial surplus to the trading book only 
partly mitigated the reductions in NII.
– Net interest margin (‘NIM’) of 1.56% 
decreased by 10 basis points (‘bps’), mainly 
due to increased deployment of our 
commercial surplus to the trading book.
– Expected credit losses and other credit 
impairment charges (‘ECL’) of $3.4bn were 
stable. ECL were $1.8bn in Commercial 
Banking (‘CMB’) and $0.2bn in GBM. This 
included stage 3 charges relating to the 
commercial real estate sector in mainland 
China ($0.4bn), the onshore Hong Kong real 
estate sector ($0.1bn), and a charge related to 
a single CMB customer in the UK. ECL in 
WPB were $1.3bn and primarily related to our 
legal entities in Mexico, Hong Kong and the 
UK. ECL were 36bps of average gross 
loans, including loans and advances 
classified as held for sale (2023: 32bps).
– Operating expenses grew by $1.0bn or 3% 
to $33.0bn, mainly due to higher spend and 
investment in technology and the impacts of 
inflation, partly offset by reductions related to 
our business disposals in Canada and 
– France, and from lower levies in the UK and 
the US. 
– Target basis operating expenses rose by 
5%, in line with our cost growth target. 
This increase primarily reflected higher spend 
and investment in technology, and the impact 
of inflation. This is measured on a constant 
currency basis, excluding notable items, the 
impact of retranslating the prior year results of 
hyperinflationary economies at constant 
currency, and the direct costs from the sales 
of our French retail banking operations and our 
banking business in Canada. 
– Customer lending balances fell by $8bn on 
a reported basis but rose by $14bn on a 
constant currency basis. Growth included 
lending balance growth in CMB and higher 
mortgage balances in WPB.
– Customer accounts rose by $43bn on a 
reported basis, and $75bn on a constant 
currency basis, with growth across all of our 
global businesses, primarily in Asia.
– Common equity tier 1 (‘CET1’) capital 
ratio of 14.9% rose by 0.1 of a percentage 
point, mainly due to capital generation and a 
reduction in RWAs through strategic 
transactions, offset by dividends, share buybacks and organic balance sheet growth.
– The Board has approved a fourth interim 
dividend of $0.36 per share, resulting in a 
total of $0.87 per share in respect of 2024, 
inclusive of a special dividend of $0.21 per 
share. We also intend to initiate a share buyback of up to $2bn, which we expect to 
complete by our first quarter 2025 results 
announcement. 
Outlook 
– We have announced measures to simplify the 
Group and we are focused on opportunities 
that build on our strong platform for growth.
– We are now targeting a mid-teens return on 
average tangible equity (‘RoTE’) in each of 
the three years from 2025 to 2027 excluding 
notable items, while acknowledging the 
outlook for interest rates remains volatile and 
uncertain, particularly in the medium term.
– We expect banking NII of around $42bn in 
2025. Our current expectation reflects 
modelling of a number of market-dependent 
factors. If changes in these factors impact the 
output of our modelling, we would update our 
expectation for 2025 Banking NII in future 
quarterly results announcements.
– We retain a Group-wide focus on cost 
discipline. We are targeting growth in target 
basis operating expenses of approximately 
3% in 2025 compared with 2024. 
– Our target basis operating expenses for 2025 
excludes the direct cost impact of the business 
disposals in Canada and Argentina, notable 
items and the impact of retranslating the prior 
year results of hyperinflationary economies at 
constant currency.
– Our cost target includes the impact of 
simplification-related saves associated with our 
announced reorganisation, which aims to 
generate approximately $0.3bn of cost 
reductions in 2025, with a commitment to an 
– annualised reduction of $1.5bn in our cost 
base expected by the end of 2026. To deliver 
these reductions, we plan to incur severance 
and other up-front costs of $1.8bn over 2025 
and 2026, which will be classified as notable 
items. We are focused on opportunities where 
we have a clear competitive advantage and 
accretive returns, and we aim to redeploy 
around $1.5bn of additional costs from nonstrategic activities into these areas, over the 
medium term. 
– We expect ECL charges as a percentage of 
average gross loans to continue to be 
within our medium-term planning range of 
30bps to 40bps in 2025 (including lending held 
for sale balances).
Strategic Report
2
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

– Over the medium to long term, we continue to 
expect mid-single digit percentage growth 
for year-on-year customer lending balances.
– We expect double-digit percentage average 
annual growth in fee and other income in 
Wealth over the medium-term. 
– We intend to continue to manage the CET1 
capital ratio within our medium-term target 
range of 14% to 14.5%, with a dividend 
payout ratio target basis of 50% for 2025, 
excluding material notable items and related 
impacts.
 Our targets and expectations reflect our current 
outlook for the global macroeconomic 
environment and market-dependent factors, such 
as market-implied interest rates (as of mid-January 
2025) and rates of foreign exchange, as well as 
customer behaviour and activity levels. 
 We do not reconcile our forward guidance on RoTE 
excluding the impact of notable items, target basis 
operating expenses, dividend payout ratio target 
basis or banking NII to their equivalent reported 
measures.
Reshaping the Group for growth
– We continue to make progress on 
reshaping the Group. In 2024, we 
completed the sales of our retail banking 
operations in France, and exited our 
businesses in Canada and Argentina. We have 
also enhanced the efficiency of the Group 
through smaller inorganic actions. 
– In 2024, we served our customers through 
three global businesses, Wealth and 
Personal Banking, Commercial Banking 
and Global Banking and Markets. In 
October 2024, we announced that we are 
simplifying our organisational structure to 
accelerate delivery against our strategic 
priorities. Effective 1 January 2025, the Group 
operates through four new businesses: Hong 
Kong, UK, Corporate and Institutional Banking, 
and International Wealth and Premier Banking.
– In January 2024, we completed the sale of 
our retail banking operations in France. In 
accordance with the terms of the sale, we 
retained a €7.1bn ($7.4bn) portfolio of home 
and other loans. During the fourth quarter of 
2024 we began to actively market this retained 
portfolio for sale. On 1 January 2025 we 
reclassified this portfolio as hold-to-collect-andsell and expect to recognise an estimated $1bn 
fair value pre-tax loss in ‘other comprehensive 
income’ in equity on the remeasurement of the 
financial instruments in 1Q25.
– In March 2024, we completed the sale of 
HSBC Bank Canada. The completion of the 
transaction resulted in a $4.8bn gain on sale, 
inclusive of the recycling of foreign currency 
translation and other reserves losses. 
Following completion of the sale, the Board 
approved a special dividend of $0.21 per 
share, which was paid on 21 June 2024.
– In December 2024, we completed the sale 
of our business in Argentina. The 
completion of the transaction resulted in a pretax loss on sale of $1.0bn during 2024 and a 
$5.2bn recycling of foreign currency 
translation reserve losses and other reserves 
to the income statement in 4Q24.
– During 2024, we completed the sale of our 
business in Russia and recognised foreign 
currency translation reserve losses of 
approximately $0.1bn. We also completed the 
sale of our operations in Armenia and exited 
our retail banking operations in Mauritius.
– We also announced divestments in our 
private banking business in Germany and 
our business in South Africa, and we signed 
a memorandum of understanding in relation to 
the planned sale of our France life 
insurance business. In addition, we have 
launched a strategic review of our business in 
Malta. The review is at an early stage and no 
decisions have been made.
– In January 2025, as part of our efforts to 
simplify HSBC and increase leadership in our 
areas of strength, we announced that we 
will begin to wind down our mergers and 
acquisitions (‘M&A’) and equity capital 
markets activities in the UK, Europe, and 
the US, subject to local legal requirements. 
We will retain more focused M&A and equity 
capital markets capabilities in Asia and the 
Middle East.
– In June 2024, we completed the 
acquisition of Citi’s retail wealth 
management portfolio in mainland China. 
This portfolio complements our growing set of 
wealth businesses and our ambition to be the 
leading international wealth manager for mass 
affluent and high net worth individuals in 
mainland China.
– In January 2024, we acquired SilkRoad 
Property Partners Group – expanding our 
real estate investment capabilities in AsiaPacific, aligning with our ambition of becoming 
a top direct real estate investment manager in 
the region.
 Acquisitions and disposals that are classified as 
material notable items form part of ‘strategic 
transactions’ and their impacts are separately 
presented in our financial reporting. Read more 
on the financial impact of our strategic 
transactions on page 102.
 Read more on our organisational update on 
page 5.
ESG update
Transition to net zero
– Supporting the transition to net zero is a key 
priority for HSBC. In our net zero transition plan 
published in January 2024, we committed to 
continually calibrate our approach to take into 
consideration the latest scientific 
methodologies, climate-related policy 
measures and developments in the real world. 
As we near the mid-point towards our 2030 
targets, we have begun a review of our 
interim 2030 financed emission targets and 
associated policies. This forms part of our 
annual net zero transition plan review as 
referenced in our 3Q24 earnings release in 
October.
– In 2020, we set an ambition to achieve net zero 
in our own operations and supply chain by 
2030. We have made good progress in 
reducing our scope 1 and 2 emissions and are 
currently on track to deliver reductions of more 
than 90% by 2030 compared to our 2019 
baseline. However, progress in reducing 
emissions in the scope 3 supply chain 
component is proving slower than we 
anticipated. We currently expect a 40% 
emissions reduction across our operations, 
travel and supply chain by 2030 which would 
mean that we would need to rely heavily on 
carbon offsets to achieve net zero in our supply 
chain by 2030. As such, we have revisited our 
ambition, taking into account latest best 
practice on carbon offsets. We are now 
focused on achieving net zero in our 
operations, travel and supply chain by 2050.
– Since 2020, we have provided and facilitated 
$393.6bn of sustainable finance and 
investment, which was an increase of $99.2bn 
in the past year. This consisted of green and 
social financing, alongside other forms of 
sustainable financing and investment.
– We have continued to focus on financing 
our clients’ transition needs. In 2024, we 
launched HSBC Infrastructure Finance to help 
realise the financing and advisory 
opportunities in creating the infrastructure 
for a low carbon economy. We have also 
continued to focus on emerging climate 
technologies and supply chain 
decarbonisation. 
– We have continued to participate in cross 
sector efforts to support customers’ 
transitions. 
Build inclusion and resilience
– In 2024, 34.6% of senior leadership roles 
were held by women, and we are on track 
to achieve our ambition of 35% by 2025. 
We also continued to work towards meeting 
our ethnicity ambitions.
– Digital accessibility is important to us. We are 
using the power of technology to help provide 
a great digital experience for our customers and 
employees, including people with disabilities 
and those who are neurodivergent. We also 
expanded our efforts to support customers 
with disabilities in our branch spaces.
Act responsibly
– We have strengthened our AI governance 
processes to help ensure the responsible 
development and use of AI and launched 
www.hsbc.com/ai to increase the transparency 
of our AI strategy with clients and investors.
– We continued to develop our understanding 
of our salient human rights issues. In 2024, 
we focused on our approach to human rights 
risk management relating to the goods and 
services we buy from third parties and in 
respect of our business customers.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
3
Strategic report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Who we are
HSBC is one of the largest banking and financial services organisations in the world.
Guided by our purpose of opening up a world of opportunity, our ambition is to be the preferred 
international financial partner for our clients. 
Our global 
reach
Our global 
businesses
in 2024 
Wealth and Personal 
Banking (’WPB’) 
WPB helped millions of our 
customers look after their day-today finances and manage, protect 
and grow their wealth.
For further details, see page 30.
Commercial Banking 
(‘CMB’) 
Our global reach and expertise 
helped domestic and international 
businesses around the world 
unlock their potential. 
For further details, see page 32.
Global Banking and 
Markets (’GBM’) 
GBM provided a comprehensive 
range of financial services and 
products to corporates, 
governments and institutions. 
For further details, see page 34.
For further details on our 
organisational update, see page 5.
Revenue in 2024 by global business
1
Strategic Report
4
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
In 2024, we served around 41 million customers worldwide through a network 
covering 58 countries and territories. 
Approximately 
41m
Customers bank with us
We employ approximately 
211,000
Full-time equivalent staff
Assets of
$3.0tn
Operations in 
58
Countries and territories
Our customers range from individual savers 
and investors to some of the world’s 
biggest companies, governments and 
international organisations. We aim to 
connect them to opportunities and help 
them to achieve their ambitions.
 For further details of our customers and 
approach to geographical information, see 
page 96. 
In 2024, we served our customers through three global businesses, which focused on 
delivering growth in areas where we have distinctive capabilities and have significant 
opportunities. Our 2024 operating segment results are presented on this basis. 
Effective 1 January 2025, the Group will operate through four new businesses which 
are detailed on page 5.
WPB
CMB
GBM
32%
26%
42%
1 Calculation is based on revenue of our global businesses excluding Corporate Centre. Corporate Centre had negative 
revenue of $1,929m in 2024. See page 36 for details of Corporate Centre results in 2024.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Our new 
organisational 
structure
Hong Kong
Being the market leader in our home market of Hong 
Kong is one of our clear strengths and remains a 
strategic priority.
UK
Our UK ring-fenced bank has a leading market 
position in our home market of the UK and will 
continue to be a critical pillar of our strategy.
Corporate and Institutional 
Banking
Our new Corporate and Institutional Banking 
business is a market leader in cross-border 
transaction banking and capital markets and 
integrates our Commercial Banking business 
(outside the UK and Hong Kong) with our Global 
Banking and Markets business. 
International Wealth 
and Premier Banking 
This business brings together Premier focused 
banking (outside Hong Kong and the UK), our Global 
Private Bank, and our wealth manufacturing 
businesses of Asset Management and Insurance.
Group Operating Committee
To align with the new structure, a new Group Operating Committee comprised of 12 members now serves as 
the leading decision-making committee of the Group, replacing the Group Executive Committee of 18 
members. The Group’s functions are also being realigned to support the new business structure.
* Both our Hong Kong and UK businesses will serve our personal banking customers and commercial clients residing in these 
 home markets. 
 For further details on our senior management team, see page 242.
Our values 
 
Our stakeholders 
Our stakeholders are the people who 
work for us, bank with us, own us, 
regulate us, and live in the societies 
we serve and the planet we all 
inhabit. These human connections 
are complex and overlap.
Many of our employees are 
customers and shareholders, while 
our business customers are often 
suppliers. Guided by our purpose, 
we aim to create value for our 
customers and shareholders. 
Our size and global reach mean our 
actions can have a significant 
impact. We are committed to doing 
business responsibly, and thinking 
for the long term. This is key to 
delivering our strategy.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
5
Effective from 1 January 2025, we have implemented a new organisational business 
structure that aims to unleash our full potential by building on our strong progress in 
recent years and driving our success into the future.
Our values help define who we are as an organisation, and are key to our long-term success. 
We value 
difference
We succeed 
together
We take 
responsibility
We get 
it done
Building strong relationships with our stakeholders helps enable us to deliver our strategy in 
line with our long-term values, and operate the business in a sustainable way.
For further details of how we are engaging with our stakeholders, see page 16.
Strategic report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Group Chairman’s shareholder letter
In 2024, global economic growth was mixed. 
In the West, the US remained an 
outperformer, while growth across Europe 
was disappointing. In Asia and the Middle 
East, there was broadly steady growth. With 
inflation falling and with signs of the labour 
market softening, the US Federal Reserve 
was able to start cutting rates, as did most 
advanced economies.
This was against a backdrop of significant 
geopolitical uncertainty, heightened by 
numerous and consequential elections across 
the world. The war in Ukraine, now entering 
its fourth year, and the conflicts and 
continuing tensions in the Middle East, have 
had a tragic human impact. Our thoughts are 
with all those who have suffered and 
continue to experience the devastating 
consequences. 
In this context, our focus is on our 
customers, leveraging our global network to 
help them navigate the challenges and 
capture the opportunities that emerge. That 
approach, combined with the disciplined 
execution of our strategy, delivered another 
strong financial performance and increased 
returns in 2024. 
And we are very well positioned for the 
future.
HSBC’s 160
th Anniversary
2025 will mark HSBC’s 160th anniversary. 
In 1865, HSBC’s founders started out with a 
clear and simple objective: to establish a bank 
in Hong Kong and Shanghai that would 
facilitate local and international trade, 
connecting East and West, and the many 
places in-between. 
That objective is as relevant and significant 
today as it was then. 
2024 progress and performance
In 2024, we delivered profit before tax of 
$32.3bn - an increase of $2.0bn compared 
with 2023. Our return on average tangible 
equity was 14.6%, or 16% excluding the 
impact of notable items. 
We delivered increased returns for our 
shareholders. The Board approved a fourth 
quarterly dividend of $0.36 per share, bringing 
the total dividend announced for 2024 to 
$0.87 per share. This includes the special 
dividend of $0.21 per share that was paid in 
June following the completion of the sale of 
HSBC Bank Canada. In addition, we 
announced three share buy-backs in respect 
of 2024 worth a total of $9bn. And today, we 
announced a further share buy-back of up to 
$2bn. 
Since the start of 2023, we have repurchased 
11% of the issued share count. Combined 
with our sustained levels of profitability, this 
led to greater earnings and dividends per 
share for our shareholders. 
Dividends paid in 2024, together with a more 
than 20% increase in the share price, 
delivered a total shareholder return for the 
year of more than 30%. 
Our performance demonstrates that our 
strategy is working. To maintain, and indeed 
accelerate, the momentum, we are being 
very deliberate in creating investment 
capacity for priority areas, focusing on longterm strategic growth.
Optimising cost and capital allocation, we 
completed the sale of our businesses in 
Canada, Russia, Argentina, and Armenia, as 
well as our retail banking operations in France 
and Mauritius. We announced the planned 
sale of our business in South Africa and of 
our private banking business in Germany, as 
well as the planned sale of our life insurance 
business in France. 
In parallel, our strategic investments are 
yielding significant results. In Wealth, for 
instance, revenue grew by 18% in 2024, 
including a 21% increase in fee and other 
income. The continued inflow of Net New 
Invested Assets and growth in total 
customers point to the material upside 
opportunity. In Hong Kong, for instance, we 
added approximately 800k new-to-bank 
customers.
Strategic Report
6
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Sir Mark E Tucker
Group Chairman
2024 was a year of strong performance. We continued to help 
our customers navigate challenges and capture meaningful 
opportunities, whilst providing increased returns for our 
shareholders. Looking ahead, we have the right people and 
structure to drive accelerated growth in 2025 and beyond.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

"Our performance
 demonstrates that our
 strategy is working. To
 maintain, and indeed
 accelerate, the
 momentum, we are
 being very deliberate in
 creating investment
 capacity for priority
 areas, focusing on longterm strategic growth."
At the same time, we secured multiple 
additional licences to expand our operations 
in mainland China. In India, we received an 
approval earlier this year to open bank 
branches in 20 new cities that are at the 
centre of the expanding wealth and 
international opportunity.
We will continue to focus on and invest in 
growth opportunities where we have a clear 
competitive advantage.
Leadership and Board Changes
Following Noel Quinn’s decision to retire as 
Group Chief Executive, the Board ran a 
rigorous and robust process to appoint his 
successor. 
I would like to once again pay tribute to 
Noel’s exceptional leadership and thank him 
for his unwavering commitment and 
dedication to HSBC during his 37 years of 
service. We wish him the very best in all of 
his future endeavours.
In September, Georges Elhedery became our 
Group Chief Executive. He brings a wealth of 
experience and an outstanding track record of 
delivery, achieved over a career spent 
working in Asia, the Middle East and Europe. 
In a little over five months, he has already 
made his mark. 
From 1 January 2025, we began operating 
through four businesses: Hong Kong, the UK, 
Corporate and Institutional Banking, and 
International Wealth and Premier Banking. 
The objective is to create a simpler and more 
dynamic organisation - with faster decisionmaking and clear lines of accountability. 
Georges was succeeded as Group Chief 
Financial Officer by Pam Kaur, who joined the 
Board as an Executive Director, having 
previously served as Group Chief Risk and 
Compliance Officer. 
At the 2024 Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’), 
David Nish retired from the Board. David 
made invaluable contributions over eight 
years, particularly as Chair of the Group Audit 
Committee and as Senior Independent 
Director. Ann Godbehere took over as Senior 
Independent Director. Ann’s extensive 
financial services experience, over a 30-year 
career spanning insurance, retail and private 
banking, and wealth management, positions 
her very well for this role. Brendan Nelson 
took over as Chair of the Group Audit 
Committee. His UK and international financial 
and auditing expertise and experience are 
enormously valuable.
In 2024, the Board held meetings in mainland 
China, Dubai, Singapore, New York, and 
London. On each occasion, we had the 
privilege and pleasure to meet with valued 
clients, government officials, regulators, and 
colleagues. 
Our AGM in London and the Informal 
Meeting of our Hong Kong Shareholders 
provided substantive opportunities to engage 
with our shareholders, on important issues 
related to the Group. 
Global outlook
The economic outlook remains uncertain with 
potential downside risks to global growth 
from trade frictions and supply chain 
disruptions. Inflation has declined but is 
proving stubborn and could be impacted by 
oil and gas prices, as well as any trade tariffs. 
Global growth is expected to remain fairly 
stable in 2025, with the US still likely to 
remain the major engine of growth. However, 
policy priorities are adding to uncertainties 
regarding growth prospects around the world. 
Already, it appears that the improvement in 
world trade growth may be starting to falter. 
In China, the package of fiscal and monetary 
measures announced in the final quarter of 
2024 was welcome and helped it reach its 
annual target of ‘around 5%’ GDP growth. 
Aided by its transformation to a consumptionled and innovation-focused economic model, 
we expect it to deliver a comparable 
performance in 2025. Hong Kong should also 
continue to expand, with its growth directly 
linked to mainland China. 
Elsewhere in Asia, changing supply chains 
and resilient local demand helped to drive 
growth in a number of markets, including 
India. Over the longer term, the demographic 
dividend will benefit countries like India and 
markets across South and Southeast Asia. 
As this happens, we also continue to see 
great potential in the fast-growing corridor 
between Asia and the Middle East, where 
strong demographics combine with large 
scale capital spending on infrastructure and 
further diversification, which are set to 
continue. 
In Europe, with inflation pressures easing and 
interest rates on a downward trajectory, 
consumer spending should rise. As a result, 
we expect the Eurozone to expand this year. 
Meanwhile, the new UK government is 
pursuing a pro-growth agenda, which we fully 
support.
Our people
I want to end by expressing the Board’s 
immense appreciation and gratitude to all our 
colleagues for driving our Group forward. 
All that we delivered in 2024 was only made 
possible by their sustained efforts, energies, 
and execution focus. They are the lifeblood of 
the HSBC Group, serving our customers and 
creating value for shareholders.
Sir Mark E Tucker
Group Chairman
19 February 2025
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
7
Strategic report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Group CEO’s shareholder letter
RoTE 
14.6%
(2023: 14.6%)
RoTE excluding notable items 
 
16.0%
(2023: 16.2%) 
Profit before tax 
$32.3bn
(2023: $30.3bn)
Dear fellow shareholders,
The opportunity to lead HSBC is a privilege. 
Even more so as we celebrate our 160th 
anniversary. Like each of my predecessors, I 
see my responsibility as delivering 
sustainable strategic growth for our 
shareholders. This begins by putting our 
customers at the centre of everything we do. 
Our financial strength, international network, 
heritage, and brand mean we build upon firm 
foundations. 
We look to the future with confidence.
We begin from a position of strength, which 
is reinforced by our 2024 performance. 
During the year, we delivered a return on 
average tangible equity (‘RoTE’) of 14.6%. 
This includes several notable items, in 
particular related to strategic disposals. 
Excluding these, our RoTE was 16.0%, 
achieving our ‘mid-teens’ target. Our 
common equity tier 1 (‘CET1’) capital ratio 
was 14.9%, reflecting our long-standing 
financial strength. With our continued focus 
on cost discipline, we managed cost growth 
on our target basis of around 5%, which was
in line with our targeted cost growth. This 
strong performance enabled us to announce 
$26.9 billion in returns to our shareholders 
through dividends and share buy-backs, 
which we expect to remain central to our 
strategy.
Simple, more agile, focused
The world in which we operate is changing 
quickly. We are adapting to help our 
customers navigate new complexities. By 
doing so, we will open up a world of 
opportunity as we serve their needs, 
delivering on our strategy.
Since assuming the role in September, I have 
focused on injecting energy and intent into 
the way we deliver our strategy. We are 
being more agile in the way we allocate our 
resources and invest to prepare for the 
future. That includes retiring non-strategic 
assets and embracing the productive power 
of new technologies and tools to modernise 
HSBC and enhance the way we serve our 
customers.
We have renewed vigour in finding the 
efficiencies that will optimise our resource 
allocation, be that geographical, business line 
or balance sheet. This will enhance the way 
we actively and dynamically manage costs 
and capital, and target investments. 
We will be guided by three overarching 
priorities:
– Focus on our customers, delivering high 
levels of satisfaction;
– Drive long-term growth by focusing on our 
strengths, increasing our leadership and 
market share in the areas where we can 
generate attractive returns;
– Simplify our structure and operating model. 
Reshape and rationalise our portfolio, to 
meet the needs of a fast-changing world. 
To achieve this, I have put in place a smaller, 
core team of exceptionally talented leaders. 
They are each committed to fostering a culture 
of excellence for our colleagues, driven by a 
growth-orientated mindset. HSBC’s many 
talented colleagues around the world are key to 
delivering the exceptional customer experience 
that will drive our future growth.
We have also simplified the organisation in 
two important ways.
First, by moving away from a complex matrix 
governance structure built around three 
business lines and five geographical regions 
to create four new businesses. Each firmly 
rooted in our core strengths:
– Corporate and Institutional Banking, which 
combines our two wholesale businesses;
– International Wealth and Premier Banking, 
to focus on accelerating the build out of our 
global wealth proposition; 
Strategic Report
8
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Georges Elhedery
Group CEO
A simple, more agile, focused organisation built on our core 
strengths, delivering sustainable strategic growth for our 
customers and shareholders.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

"Our ambition is to
 unlock HSBC’s full 
 potential for the benefit 
 of all our stakeholders, 
 provide excellent 
 customer outcomes that 
 enhance our franchise 
 and brand, generating 
 the strategic growth that 
 will deliver attractive 
 returns for you, our 
 shareholders."
– Our two home markets of Hong Kong and 
the UK, where we have scale and marketleading positions. 
HSBC’s supporting infrastructure is being 
simplified and realigned to enable these four 
businesses to grow.
Simply put, we are aligning our structure to 
our strategy.
Second, we are significantly improving our 
operating model, led by a tighter team at the 
Group Operating Committee, that will:
– Provide clarity of accountability, empower 
colleagues to make faster decisions and 
accelerate the pace at which we generate 
greater productivity;
– Make HSBC simple, with fewer 
management lines and layers, and less 
committees, designed to reduce 
bureaucracy, create closer collaboration, 
emphasise teamwork, and facilitate the 
flow of ideas and innovation;
– Adapt quickly to the factors that are 
shaping the economies and industries in 
which our customers operate;
– Sharpen and strengthen our focus on 
capital efficiency and firm-wide risk 
management.
This will create a step change in the way we 
work, the way we serve customers and the 
way we generate sustainable strategic 
growth, driving higher returns for our 
shareholders.
In short, unlocking HSBC’s full potential.
Designed to deliver strong, sustainable 
strategic growth
For 160 years, HSBC has been defined by its 
financial strength and international network. 
Both remain enablers of everything we do. 
What is changing is the clarity, speed and 
intensity with which we are repositioning 
HSBC around our four complementary, clearly 
differentiated businesses.
Corporate and Institutional Banking (‘CIB’) is 
an international wholesale bank with 
significant competitive advantages. It has a 
powerful deposit franchise with financing 
capabilities supported by the strength of our 
balance sheet and our network. It has the 
products and skills required to serve the 
global banking needs of international 
corporate clients, particularly in transaction 
banking where we continue to invest. This 
positions us to better capture global and intraregional flows as supply chains reconfigure, 
new trade routes emerge, economies grow, 
and customers’ expectations of financial 
services evolve.
The future economy will require financing and 
investment in sectors such as advanced 
technologies, specifically digitalisation, 
computing and generative AI, as well as clean 
energy and healthcare. CIB is well positioned 
to facilitate this by helping entrepreneurs to 
secure the capital they need to build the 
businesses of the future and by supporting 
our customers as they look to decarbonise.
International Wealth and Premier Banking 
(‘IWPB’) is ideally placed to capture the 
increasing number of affluent and high-networth customers. Especially those with 
international banking needs who seek new 
investment opportunities to help them to 
protect and grow their wealth. Our 
recognised brand, financial strength and 
complementary footprints across Asia and 
the Middle East serve to reinforce HSBC‘s 
position in the world’s fastest-growing wealth 
markets. We also have an asset management 
business with distinct specialism in both 
regions offering customers access to 
investment opportunities across asset 
classes. 
The Hong Kong and UK businesses give us 
strong platforms in our home markets. We 
serve personal banking customers and small 
and medium enterprises in these businesses. 
In Hong Kong specifically, where HSBC was 
founded, Hang Seng Bank, a customercentric community bank, is a strategically 
important investment of the HSBC Group, 
which enhances the strength of our franchise 
and market-leading position. We also have a 
fast-growing insurance manufacturing 
business in Hong Kong, leveraging the 
inflows that are propelling Hong Kong to 
become the leading international wealth hub. 
In the UK, we have a leading retail, 
commercial and innovation-focused bank 
which continues to build market share. 
Customers in Hong Kong and the UK with 
global banking needs will be able to access 
the power of our international network 
through our CIB and IWPB businesses, that 
are anchored in these two leading 
international financial centres.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
9
Strategic report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Financial strength
CET1 ratio 
14.9%
(2023: 14.8%) 
In 2024, our strong financial performance 
enabled us to announce
$26.9bn
in returns to our shareholders through 
dividends and share buy-backs. 
Cost discipline
Operating expenses
$33.0bn
(2023: $32.1bn)
Target basis operating expenses up 5% to 
$32.6bn
Delivering on our priorities to customers 
and shareholders
HSBC is a highly connected, global 
organisation. Our international network is a 
significant differentiator.
By refocusing on our core strengths, we are 
creating a simple, more agile, focused 
organisation structured to better serve our 
customers and deliver for our shareholders. 
We have taken the first deliberate and 
decisive steps. We continue to move at pace 
and with a relentless focus on actively 
managing our costs. Not as a one off, but as 
an embedded mindset.
How we deliver on our three priorities is 
equally important. We are instilling a culture 
of excellence, leadership and accountability 
throughout the firm. We are also undergoing 
a comprehensive transformation of our 
operations, modernising our infrastructure, 
and investing in technology such as AI, 
generative AI, data and analytics. This will 
enhance customer experience as well as 
drive operational excellence.
The aim being to create a refocused, 
reinvigorated HSBC, firmly rooted in four 
complementary businesses with the ambition 
to generate high levels of total shareholder 
returns.
Today’s actions define a confident 
future
I am confident about our future and what we 
can achieve.
As we celebrate our 160th anniversary, our 
history and heritage stand us in good stead. 
In so many ways, adapting to new economic 
realities and technologies is what we have 
always done. It brings out the best in our 
people and culture, especially when acting as 
a trusted advisor to our customers as they 
navigate the world’s economic uncertainties 
and look towards new opportunities.
As we look to the future, our strategic 
priorities are clear, our leadership team is 
now in place, supported by a simplified 
structure that enables action.
We have clarity on who we are and what we 
seek to achieve. We are driven by a precision 
of purpose that guides the way we do 
business, the values we uphold and the way 
we serve our customers, colleagues and 
communities. 
We are prioritising a high-performance culture 
where employees are passionate about what 
they can achieve and rewarded for their 
strong customer focus, skills, ambition and 
initiative. We will invest in our people, one of 
our most valuable assets, providing them 
with expansive career opportunities and 
supporting them in developing future-focused 
skills, establishing HSBC as an employer of 
choice and a great place to work. 
A strong culture and effective leadership will 
be key to our long-term success. 
I would like to thank all of my colleagues for 
their valuable contributions to our results. It is 
a privilege to work with such talented people. 
Their dedication, commitment, and desire to 
deliver for our customers differentiates HSBC 
and is key to delivering long-term growth. 
The actions we are taking will have clear and 
tangible impact. Our ambition is to unlock 
HSBC’s full potential for the benefit of all our 
stakeholders, provide excellent customer 
outcomes that enhance our franchise and 
brand, generating the strategic growth that 
will deliver attractive returns for you, our 
shareholders.
Georges Elhedery
Group CEO
19 February 2025
Strategic Report
10
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Our strategy
During 2024, we continued to implement our strategy 
aligned to our purpose, values and ambition.
On 22 October 2024, we announced that we 
would simplify our organisational structure to 
help accelerate delivery against our strategic 
priorities. Effective 1 January 2025, we are 
operating through four new businesses: 
Hong Kong, UK, Corporate and Institutional 
Banking, and International Wealth and 
Premier Banking. The Group’s functions are 
being realigned to support the four 
businesses. For 2024, the bank operated 
under, and our reporting remained aligned to, 
our prior global business structure, Wealth 
and Personal Banking, Commercial Banking 
and Global Banking and Markets.
Building leadership where we are strong 
Our strategic priorities remain clear. We aim 
to maintain and build on our leadership in 
Hong Kong and the UK. International 
connectivity distinguishes HSBC – indeed, 
international trade has always been at the 
heart of our business. We were founded in 
Hong Kong in 1865 and by 1875 had 
expanded into seven countries across Asia, 
Europe and North America.
We are committed to building on our strong 
platform for growth. HSBC is a highly 
connected, global business and the plans we 
set out in October 2024 aim to increase our 
leadership and market share in areas where 
we have competitive advantage, deliver 
best-in-class products and service excellence 
to our customers, and create a simple,
more agile, focused organisation with 
clearer lines of accountability and faster 
decision making.
2024 results 
We delivered a good set of results again in 
2024. Our reported profit before tax was 
$32.3bn. During 2024, we reported several 
notable items, in particular related to the 
disposal of our businesses in Canada and 
Argentina. To facilitate comparison across 
periods, we also consider profit before tax 
excluding notable items and the impact of 
foreign currency translation. On this basis, 
profit before tax was $34.1bn, compared with 
$32.7bn in 2023. Our reported revenue of 
$65.9bn was broadly stable compared with 
2023. Excluding notable items and in 
constant currency, we grew revenue by 5% 
compared with 2023. 
In 2024, we achieved a RoTE of 14.6%. 
During 2024, we reported several notable 
items, in particular related to strategic 
disposals. To facilitate comparison across 
periods, we also consider our RoTE excluding 
the impact of notable items. In 2024, RoTE 
excluding notable items was 16.0%, 
achieving our target of ‘mid-teens’. We 
delivered a 16.2% RoTE excluding notable 
items in 2023.
14.6%
Return on average tangible equity
(2023: 14.6%)
Reported profit before tax
Progress in our affluent and wealth businesses 
In WPB, revenue increased by 7% compared 
with 2023 on a constant currency basis.
We continued to demonstrate strategic 
progress during 2024, building our affluent 
and wealth propositions, taking advantage of 
the growth of wealth assets, specifically in 
Asia. At 31 December 2024, wealth balances 
in WPB were $1.8tn, an increase of 7% 
compared with 2023. Within this we 
attracted net new invested assets of $64bn 
in 2024, with $47bn booked in Asia. Wealth 
deposits, including Premier and Global 
Private Banking deposits, grew to $555bn. 
Revenue in Wealth was up $1.3bn or 18% 
on a constant currency basis, with an 
increase in Asia of 32%. This supports our 
medium term target to grow Wealth fees 
and other income at a double-digit 
percentage compound annual growth rate 
over the medium term. Our total invested 
assets were $1.3tn, up from $1.2tn in 2023. 
There was a strong performance in our WPB 
insurance business, which delivered revenue 
growth of 32% to $1.8bn. Our insurance 
manufacturing new business contractual 
service margin (‘CSM’) of $2.5bn increased 
by 49% compared with $1.7bn in 2023. The 
growth in CSM underpins our potential future 
revenue from this business. 
$1.8tn
Wealth balances
Increased by 7% compared with 2023
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
11
$32.3bn
(2023: $30.3bn)
Corporate Centre
$1.2bn
WPB
$12.2bn
CMB
$11.9bn
GBM
$7.1bn
Strategic report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Progress in our wholesale businesses
In CMB, revenue declined by 4% compared 
with 2023 on a constant currency basis. This 
was primarily due to the non-recurrence of a 
gain in 2023 on the acquisition of SVB UK. In 
GBM, constant currency revenue grew by 
11% compared with 2023.
Our strength in international connectivity is a 
key differentiator. We partner with our clients 
as they expand internationally. The 
reconfiguration of global supply chains plays 
to our strength in network business: in our 58 
markets, we are well placed to help clients 
manage increased complexity. 
Transaction banking is a leading HSBC 
proposition. We ranked second by Global 
Payments Solutions (‘GPS’) revenue in the 
first three quarters of 20241. We also 
facilitated over $850bn in trade2 and have 
been ranked first in revenue for the last 
seven consecutive years3. We generated 
revenue of $26.3bn from transaction banking 
during 2024, which was broadly stable 
compared with 2023. We were ranked joint 
second in Global Foreign Exchange (‘GFX’) 
revenue4 and second in APAC securities 
services in the first three quarters of 20245.
$850bn
Trade volume facilitated
1 Source: Coalition Greenwich Competitor Analytics 
– 9M24.
2 HSBC internal management information, 
excluding Hang Seng, Malaysia and Germany.
3 Source: Coalition Greenwich Competitor Analytics 
– 9M24.
4 Source: Coalition Greenwich Competitor 
Analytics – 9M24.
5 Source: Coalition Greenwich Competitor 
Analytics – 9M24. 
Performance across geographies
Hong Kong
We have the leading banking franchise in Hong 
Kong, with $575bn in customer deposits and 
market leadership in a number of product 
areas6. In 2024, reported revenue was 
$21.2bn, an increase of 6%. We welcomed 
799,000 new-to-bank customers in WPB, with 
the rate of growth accelerating from 345,000 in 
the first half of 2024, to 454,000 in the second 
half. Our 2024 full year new-to-bank customers 
numbers grew by 66% compared with 2023. 
We also continued to solidify our leadership 
position and grow our WPB business. In our 
wholesale businesses, we focused on 
maintaining our leading position across multiple 
products. In trade finance, our market share 
was 29.2%, an increase of 3.5 percentage 
points from 20237.
UK
HSBC UK has a top 3 franchise8 with $340bn 
in customer deposits. Reported revenue was 
$12.8bn in 2024, a decrease of 5%, although it 
represented an increase of 5% excluding the 
$1.6bn gain on acquisition of Silicon Valley 
Bank UK – a notable item in 2023. We 
continued to grow our CMB business and we 
are ‘Share Leader’ in UK corporate banking 
with 75% market penetration, according to 
Coalition Greenwich. In our WPB business, we 
grew mortgage lending balances by $4.6bn 
since 31 December 2023 on a constant 
currency basis, taking our UK mortgage 
market share from 8.0% to 8.1%9. In the UK, 
we see the opportunity to continue building 
our mortgage franchise and build share in 
small and medium-sized enterprise (‘SME’) 
banking.
Other markets
In addition to Hong Kong and the UK, we 
have an established presence in a number of 
markets, including mainland China, India, 
Singapore and the UAE. These markets are 
well connected to international trade, wealth 
and investment flow and are key to our 
international connectivity.
In 2024, we reported profit before tax of 
$3.2bn in our mainland China business, 
including a $2.2bn share of profit from our 
associate, BoCom. We have a strong client 
franchise in mainland China, helping to 
support clients’ international needs. We were 
the Best Trade/Supply Chain Finance Bank in 
202410. We also completed the acquisition of 
Citi’s retail wealth management portfolio, and 
supported by our expanded onshore Global 
Private Banking business, grew our wealth 
invested assets by 61% compared with 2023. 
In India, we reported a profit before tax of 
$1.7bn. We aim to continue growing our 
wholesale franchise by taking advantage of 
corporate supply chains. In 2024, we were 
recognised by Euromoney as the number one 
International Bank in India. We are also 
tapping into the wealth pools of the Indian 
diaspora through Global Private Banking. In 
2024, we remained the top foreign bank for 
non-resident Indians in wealth11. In January 
2025, we received permission to open 20 
further branches, the largest such approval 
for a foreign bank in over a decade.
In Singapore, we generated profit before tax 
of $1.4bn. Singapore is our primary wholesale 
offshore booking centre and wealth hub 
within the ASEAN region and is a centre for 
our transaction banking operations. In 2024, 
we were recognised by Euromoney as the 
Best International Bank and the Best Cash 
Management Bank in Singapore. We 
continued to grow our Premier and Wealth 
balances in Singapore in 2024.
In the UAE, we generated $0.9bn in profit 
before tax. We continue to be the largest 
foreign bank in the UAE12 and aim to continue 
growing our institutional and international 
wholesale banking business, leveraging the 
vital role the UAE and the Middle East play in 
global trade. In 2024, we were ranked 
number one in equity and debt capital 
markets in MENAT for the 4th consecutive 
year13 and Euromoney recognised us as the 
UAE’s Best International Bank. We 
established onshore Global Private Banking in 
2022 and have continued to invest in our 
wealth platforms including our global online 
trading platform WorldTrader, launched in 
2024. Our Wealth invested assets grew by 
25% compared with 2023, and we saw an 
increase of 8% in our international new-tobank customers during the same period.
As noted above, from 1 January 2025, we are 
operating through four businesses, while 
during 2024, we operated through three 
global businesses: WPB, CMB and GBM. 
799,000
Hong Kong WPB new-to-bank customers
75%
UK corporate banking market penetration
6 
HSBC internal analysis based on loans and 
advances to customers and customer accounts in 
our Hong Kong legal entity as of 30 June 2024, 
and the financial data presented in the 2Q24 
results announcements of 13 selected peer banks.
7 Source: HKMA.
8 HSBC internal analysis based on the 9M24 PBT 
of HSBC UK and the financial data presented in 
the 3Q24 results announcements of four 
selected peer banks.
9 Source: Bank of England.
10 Source: Corporate Treasurer Awards 2024.
11 Source: Indian Mutual Fund Industry.
12 HSBC internal analysis based on 9M24 revenue, 
deposits and advances, using peers' published 
results.
13 Source: Bloomberg league table.
Strategic Report
12
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Reshaping and focusing the Group
We have continued to make progress in 
reshaping the Group. In 2024, we completed 
the sales of our businesses in Canada, 
Russia, Armenia and Argentina. Furthermore, 
we disposed of our retail banking operations 
in France and Mauritius. 
We also announced planned disposals in our 
private banking business in Germany and our 
business in South Africa. We signed a 
memorandum of understanding in relation to 
the planned sale of our France life insurance 
business and have launched a strategic 
review of our business in Malta. The review 
is at an early stage and no decisions have 
been made. 
We completed the acquisition of Citi’s retail 
wealth management portfolio in mainland 
China and SilkRoad Property Partners Group 
in Singapore.
We expect further reshaping actions as we 
align the Group with our four businesses.
Deposit strength core to our strategy
We are proud of our deposit strength across 
all of our franchises, which has built steadily 
since our founding. We have a total deposit 
base of $1.65tn, comprised primarily of 
current and savings accounts. Our balance 
sheet is also highly liquid with customer 
loans of $0.93tn, representing 56% of 
customer deposits. We operate with a 
customer deposits surplus of $724bn relative 
to customer loans. We hold a surplus of 
deposits in each of our major functional 
currencies, including US dollars, Hong Kong 
dollars, sterling, renminbi and the euro. We 
also operate a surplus of customer deposits 
relative to customer loans in our major 
operating entities, including The Hongkong 
and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, 
HSBC UK and HSBC Bank plc.
The long 2009-2021 period of close-to-zero 
central bank interest rates and very low 
government bond yields in many of our 
operational currencies constrained our 
earnings in prior years. One contributor to 
our rise in profits in recent years has been a 
return of central bank interest rates and 
government bond yields to levels more 
typical of prior decades. 
Over the period from 2022 to 2024, we 
increased both the size and duration of our 
structural hedge, further stabilising our 
banking NII. The sensitivity of our banking NII 
to a 100bps parallel downward shift in 
interest rates has reduced from c.$(7)bn at 
30 June 2022, to $(2.9)bn at 31 December 
2024. This was primarily due to hedging 
actions, although higher prevailing interest 
rates also contributed to a reduction in 
sensitivity. The Group expects to further 
increase the size and duration of the 
structural hedge, subject to market 
conditions.
$1.65tn
Customer deposit balances
(2023: $1.61tn)
$0.93tn
Customer loans
(2023: $0.94tn)
Improving operational excellence through artificial intelligence 
We are transforming our operations to 
enhance customer experiences through the 
use of artificial intelligence (‘AI’) and 
automation to help deliver faster, 
personalised and more seamless services. 
Through the reduction of inefficiencies and 
streamlining processes we will help provide 
quicker responses and better journeys for 
our customers. The investments we are 
making in Technology will contribute to a 
simpler, safer organisation with operational 
resilience and stability at its core, helping to 
create lasting value for both our customers 
and stakeholders. 
By harnessing AI capabilities, HSBC aims to 
improve customer service through AI 
supported mobile apps and strengthened 
contact centre capabilities, as well as 
improving process efficiency in onboarding, 
know-your-customer, and credit applications. 
We are supporting our engineers through the 
scaled roll out of coding assistants to 
improve technology productivity, and we are 
using AI to help protect the bank and our 
customers more effectively against fraud and 
cyber crime.
We are committed to the responsible use of 
AI, ensuring that our initiatives align with 
industry and regulatory standards and best 
practices. Our governance frameworks aim 
to enable robust prioritisation of use cases 
whilst mitigating potential risk associated 
with AI deployment. 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
13
Strategic report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Our ambitions
Mid-teens RoTE extended
During 2024, we announced our intention to 
target a mid-teens RoTE1, excluding the 
impact of notable items, for 2025. Alongside 
our 2024 annual results, we have extended 
this target to each of 2025, 2026 and 2027. 
We will consider our cost and investment 
plans within this framework. 
Simplification 
With our 2024 results, we have announced 
that we aim to generate approximately 
$0.3bn of cost reductions in 2025, with a 
commitment to an annualised reduction of 
$1.5bn in our cost base expected by the end 
of 2026. These savings are primarily peoplerelated organisational design reductions, have 
negligible impact on revenues and are aligned 
to the strategic reorganisation of the Group.
We have simplified our businesses in our 
domestic markets, Hong Kong and the UK. 
Our scale retail and commercial banking 
platforms here will benefit from shorter lines 
of decision making, empowering our 
colleagues to get things done. 
We plan to intensify successful partnerships 
between our domestic markets and our 
international franchises, CIB and IWPB, for 
those clients with more complex and 
networked needs. Ensuring we continue to 
provide the services and products our global 
scale enables us to create is key to our 
growth. We will continue to service Wealth 
clients; and internationally active commercial 
and corporate clients in Hong Kong and the 
UK on an integrated basis.
Growth
We are focused on growth opportunities 
within our strategy that play to our strengths, 
while maintaining tight cost discipline and 
continuing to invest in growth and efficiency. 
We see growth opportunities in each of our 
four franchises. In CIB, these include further 
expanding our international network 
businesses, notably transaction banking. In 
IWPB, we intend to particularly focus on 
building our successful wealth business, 
especially in Asia. In Hong Kong, we intend to 
support continued growth in non-resident 
customer numbers and will seek to build on 
our strong SME proposition. In the UK, we 
see the opportunity to continue building our 
mortgage franchise and build share in SME 
banking. 
We will consider using cost savings 
generated through business disposals for 
incremental re-investment into our core 
franchises. This would be in addition to our 
ongoing investments.
Capital generation
Our business model is designed to be highly 
capital generative. In 2024, our common 
equity tier 1 (‘CET1’) capital ratio grew from 
14.8% to 14.9% as at 31 December 2024. 
During the calendar year, we paid $5.5bn 
ordinary dividends with respect to 2024, we 
expect to pay a further $6.4bn through the 
fourth interim dividend and we expect to 
repurchase $11bn of our shares for 
cancellation with respect to 2024. The capital 
generated on the disposal of our Canadian 
banking operations supported the $0.21 per 
share special dividend paid in 2Q24, 
representing a further $3.9bn distribution.
We aim to maintain a CET1 capital ratio in the 
range of 14 to 14.5% over the medium term. 
Our primary use of capital generation is to 
pay an ordinary dividend of 50% of profit 
attributable to ordinary shareholders, 
excluding material notable items and related 
impacts (our dividend payout ratio target 
basis1). Our preferred use of capital after 
paying the dividend is to support the growth 
of our four businesses. 
In recent years, much of our income growth 
has come from capital-light income streams, 
such as deposit revenue from higher interest 
rates; and from fee income, notably in 
Wealth. Our RWAs of $838.3bn at 31 
December 2024 remained broadly stable 
compared with 31 December 2022. 
Combined with strategic actions, this enabled 
the Group to buy back 11% of its outstanding 
shares in two years, while reporting a CET1 
ratio rising from 14.2% to 14.9% over the 
two years. 
Should organic growth in any given year 
require less incremental capital than the 
Group has retained after paying ordinary 
dividends to our shareholders, we plan to 
consider further share buy-backs.
c.$1.5bn
Annualised reduction in our cost base by the 
end of 2026
14-14.5%
CET1 capital ratio over the medium term
50%
Dividend payout ratio target basis1
1 We do not reconcile our forward guidance on 
RoTE excluding the impact of notable items, 
target basis operating expenses, dividend payout 
ratio target basis or banking NII to their 
equivalent reported measures.
Strategic Report
14
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

ESG overview
Our approach to environmental, social and governance is rooted in 
creating long-term value for our customers and the economies that we serve.
Our approach
Our approach to ESG is focused on creating 
long-term value for our customers and wider 
stakeholders. We focus our efforts on three 
areas: the transition to net zero, building 
inclusion and resilience, and acting 
responsibly. 
Our approach to the transition
Supporting the transition to net zero is a key 
priority for HSBC. We believe the transition to 
net zero will help make the global economy 
stronger and more resilient against mounting 
climate impacts. In October 2020, we 
announced our ambition to become a net zero 
bank by 2050. We believe supporting our 
customers’ transition both benefits their 
business and helps generate long-term 
financial returns for our shareholders.
Since we set our net zero ambition, collective 
global efforts have driven progress in some 
vital areas of the decarbonisation challenge. 
Billions of dollars have been allocated to clean 
energy. Falling costs of renewables and 
advancements in clean technologies have 
accelerated their adoption. And while it is 
taking time for more nascent industries such 
as hydrogen, carbon capture and storage and 
sustainable aviation fuel to scale, with 
supportive government policies and industrial 
strategies their adoption can be accelerated, 
and their costs reduced.
We have always recognised that the 
transition would not be linear. Yet while the 
transition has progressed, the global pace of 
change remains insufficient. As the UN’s 
latest Emission Gap report recently warned, 
current government policies, conventional 
energy demand, clean technology adoption, 
and wider consumption patterns are not yet 
aligned with the Paris Agreement goal of 
holding the temperature increase to well 
below 2°C above pre-industrial levels and 
pursuing efforts to limit the temperature 
increase to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels.
As a bank, our ability to finance our 
customers’ transition and, in turn, progress 
toward and meet our targets, relies on 
decarbonisation solutions scaling across 
sectors, alongside growing demand from our 
customers for capital to transition their 
business models. Ambitious and credible 
governmental policy measures also remain 
fundamental prerequisites for decarbonising 
the real economy at sufficient pace. We are 
limited by, and cannot on our own overcome, 
the present lag in policy measures and the 
overall slower pace of the transition. These 
factors put our customers’, and our own, net 
zero ambitions at risk.
In our net zero transition plan published in 
January 2024, we committed to continually 
calibrate our approach to take into consideration 
the latest scientific methodologies, climaterelated policy measures and developments in 
the real world given that our sector portfolios 
reflect progress in the real economy in the 
regions where we operate. As we near the midpoint towards our 2030 targets, it is important 
to take stock of our own progress so far. We 
have made good progress in reducing the 
emissions from our own operations but more 
uneven progress towards our ambitions for our 
financed emissions footprint.
Net zero in our own operations, 
business travel and supply chain
In 2020, we set an ambition to reach net zero 
in our operations and supply chain by 2030 
and we continue to make good progress in 
driving down our direct emissions, which are 
largely derived from energy consumption. We 
are currently on track to achieve a reduction 
in our scope 1 and 2 emissions of more than 
90% by 2030 compared with our 2019 
baseline, through a programme of energy 
efficiency initiatives and significant 
investment in renewable power. However, 
progress in reducing emissions in the scope 3 
supply chain component is proving slower 
than we anticipated, driven mainly by the 
slower pace of the transition across the real 
economy.
It has become clear that we would need to 
rely heavily on carbon offsets to achieve net 
zero in our supply chain by 2030. This 
approach would not be aligned with recently 
updated guidance from the Science Based 
Targets Initiative on the role of offsets in 
meeting corporate net zero claims. 
As such, we have revisited this ambition to 
take into account latest best practice 
guidance. We are now focused on cutting 
emissions across our operations, travel and 
supply chain to achieve net zero by 2050. We 
expect to continue to report on our progress 
up to 2030 and beyond. Presently, across our 
operations, business travel and supply chain, 
we expect to achieve a reduction of around 
40% in emissions by 2030. 
Interim financed emissions targets
Our strategy is to support emission 
reductions in the wider economy by working 
with our portfolio of customers to facilitate 
the emission reductions they are seeking to 
make. That is what we consider when setting 
financed emissions targets. To the extent our 
customers are facing challenges, especially in 
light of the slower pace of the transition, 
there is no real benefit to society in simply 
sending those customers to another 
organisation that may be less committed to 
supporting their transition. 
As such, we are supporting both new and 
existing customers that are making positive 
steps to transition to a net zero economy. We 
continue to focus on engaging with our 
customers on their transition plans, 
considering our strategic business lines and 
markets, managing the products and services 
we offer, and adapting the financing choices 
we make to help move the world towards a 
resilient, net zero economy.
However, as we have set out in our net zero 
transition plan, we must acknowledge that our 
influence on the decarbonisation of individual 
companies and the industries and economies in 
which our customers operate has limits. There 
are fundamental prerequisites, outside of our 
control, which impact our ability to meet our 
2030 interim financed emissions targets and 
ultimately reach our net zero ambition. These 
include technological advancements, 
diversification of the energy mix, market 
demand for climate solutions, evolving 
customer preferences, and government 
leadership and effective policy.
At the current pace of decarbonisation, a 
combination of the above factors has led to 
the transition being slower than envisaged by 
recent Paris-aligned net zero scenarios. 
Moreover, certain high emitting sectors are 
not yet currently on a 1.5°C pathway. Until 
the real economy makes significant progress 
in decarbonising, our own progress towards 
our 2030 targets and 2050 net zero ambition 
will be constrained.
Against this background, we have begun a 
review of our interim financed emissions 
targets and associated policies as part of the 
annual review of our net zero transition plan 
that we referenced in our 3Q24 earnings 
release in October. This analysis is complex: 
it presents considerable data and 
methodology challenges and it is going to 
take time to complete. 
As we calibrate our approach for the latest 
context, we will seek to balance being 
ambitious on net zero while recognising 
present near-term global challenges, and the 
associated impact of the transition playing out 
differently across the regions and sectors we 
serve. In doing so we plan to draw on the 
latest scientific evidence and credible 
industry-specific pathways while, at the same 
time, maintaining our commitment under our 
2021 Climate Resolution. 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
15
Strategic report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

We have been clear on our commitment to 
being transparent on the risks, challenges and 
opportunities arising from our ambition to be 
net zero by 2050. As such, we intend to 
provide the results of our review in our net 
zero transition plan update, which we expect 
to be released in the second half of 2025.
We remain committed to net zero, 
recognising it is a priority for our customers 
to support their growth and prosperity over 
the long term. While no single actor can drive 
the transition alone, we will continue to 
actively look for opportunities to support our 
customers’ transition and engage in the 
ongoing efforts to achieve the goals of the 
Paris Agreement.
Build inclusion and resilience
To help create long-term value for all 
stakeholders, we focus on fostering inclusion 
and building resilience for our colleagues, our 
customers and the communities we operate 
within.
For colleagues, we focus on creating an 
inclusive, healthy and rewarding environment 
as this helps us to attract, develop and retain 
the best talent, and we support their 
resilience through access to well-being and 
learning resources.
We strive to provide an inclusive and 
accessible banking experience for our 
customers. We do this by providing 
resources that help them manage their 
finances, and services that help them protect 
what they value.
In 2024 we updated our global philanthropy 
strategy to align with our ESG areas of focus: 
‘transition to net zero’; and ‘building inclusion 
and resilience’, allowing us to work alongside 
the communities we operate within to help 
create change. 
Act responsibly
We are focused on operating a strong and 
sustainable business that puts the customer 
first, values good governance, and gives our 
stakeholders confidence in how we do what 
we do. Our conduct approach guides us to do 
the right thing and to focus on the impact we 
have on our customers and the financial 
markets in which we operate. Customer 
experience is at the heart of how we operate. 
We aim to act responsibly and with integrity 
across the value chain.
Engaging with our stakeholders and our material ESG topics 
We know that engaging with our stakeholders is core to being a responsible business. To determine material topics that our stakeholders are 
interested in, we conduct a number of activities throughout the year, including engagements outlined in the table below. Disclosure standards 
such as the TCFD, World Economic Forum (‘WEF’) Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics and Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (‘SASB’), as 
well as the ESG Guide under the Hong Kong Stock Exchange Listing Rules and other applicable rules and regulations, are considered as part of 
the identification of material issues and disclosures. 
Our stakeholders How we engage
Customers 
Our customers’ voices are heard through our everyday interactions 
with them, customer surveys, listening to their complaints, and 
online feedback through social media and third-party financial 
websites and forums. 
Material topics highlighted through our 
engagement
1
– Customer advocacy
– Cybersecurity
– Employee training
– Inclusion
– Employee engagement 
– Supporting our customers – financed 
emissions
– Embedding net zero into the way we operate 
– Sustainability risk policies, including thermal 
coal phase-out policy and energy policy
– Net zero transition plan
– Financial inclusion and community investment
– Climate risk
– Anti-bribery and corruption
– Conduct and product responsibility
– Supply chain management
– Human rights
Employees 
Our colleagues’ voices are heard through our annual Snapshot 
survey, exchange sessions, town hall meetings, leadership summits, 
and our ‘speak-up’ channels, including our global whistleblowing 
platform, HSBC Confidential.
Investors
We engage with our investors through our AGMs, virtual and inperson meetings, investor roadshows, conferences and investor 
surveys, seeking to respond to questions they raise and to convey 
their views to senior management. 
Communities 
We regularly engage with non-governmental organisations (‘NGOs’), 
charities and civil society groups both directly and through crossindustry forums, as well as through partnerships. Our Climate 
Advisory Panel, comprising representatives from NGOs and industry 
experts, provides independent advice and challenge.
Regulators and 
governments 
We proactively engage with regulators, governments and 
international leaders to build strong relationships, responding to 
consultations via industry bodies to help shape our approach to 
financed emissions methodologies, scenario analysis and portfolio 
alignment to support the transition to net zero in the global 
economy.
Suppliers
Our code of conduct sets out our expectations and the minimum 
standards we expect from our suppliers on the environment, 
diversity, and human rights. We have begun direct engagement with 
our highest-emitting suppliers to understand their carbon reduction 
targets and disclosure plans.
1 These form part of our ESG disclosures suite together with other requirements, and are not exhaustive or exclusive to one stakeholder group. For further details of 
our disclosures, see our ESG review and ESG Data Pack, as well as our ESG reporting centre at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esgreporting-centre.
Strategic Report
16
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Our ESG ambitions, metrics and targets TCFD
We have established ambitions and targets 
that guide how we do business, including 
how we operate and how we serve our 
customers. These include targets designed 
to help track our progress against our 
environmental and social sustainability goals. 
They also help us to improve employee 
advocacy and the representation of senior 
leadership, as well as strengthen our market 
conduct. The targets for these measures are 
linked to the pillars of our ESG strategy: 
transition to net zero, building inclusion and 
resilience, and acting responsibly. 
To help us achieve our ESG ambitions, a 
number of measures are included in the 
annual incentive and long-term incentive 
scorecards of the Group CEO, Group CFO 
and Group Executives that underpin the ESG 
metrics in the table below. 
For a summary of how all financial and nonfinancial metrics link to executive 
remuneration, see pages 296 to 308 of the 
Directors’ remuneration report.
In our previous disclosures and in our net 
zero transition plan we have highlighted the 
risks, dependencies and uncertainties 
associated with our approach and progress 
towards our ESG ambitions. For further 
details on our climate reporting, see the ESG 
review page 43.
The table below sets out some of the key 
ESG metrics we use to measure progress 
against our ambitions. For further details of 
how we are doing, see the ESG review on 
page 41.
Environmental: 
Transition to net 
zero
1
Sustainable finance and 
investment
2
Net zero in our own operations
3
Financed emissions
4
$393.6bn 
66.1%
7 sectors
Cumulative total provided and 
facilitated since 1 January 2020.
(2023: $294.4bn) 
Ambition: Provide and facilitate
$750bn to $1tn of sustainable
finance and investment by 2030.
Reduction in absolute operational 
greenhouse gas emissions from 
2019 baseline.
(2023: 57.3%)
Updated ambition: Become a net 
zero bank by 2050.
Number of sectors where we have set 
interim financed emissions targets, 
comprising five on-balance sheet and 
two combined financed emissions 
targets. Ambition: Align our financed 
emissions to achieve net zero by 2050.
Social: 
Build inclusion 
and resilience
Gender representation
5
Black heritage
5
Inclusion Index
7
34.6%
3.0%
78%
Senior leadership roles held by 
women. (2023: 34.1%) 
Ambition: Achieve 35% senior 
leadership roles held by women 
by 20256.
Senior leadership roles held by Black 
heritage colleagues in the UK and US 
combined. (2023: 3.0%) 
Ambition: 3.4% of senior leadership 
roles held by Black heritage 
colleagues in the UK and US 
combined by 20256.
Inclusion index score. (2023: 78%) 
Ambition: Maintain 75% in the 
Snapshot Inclusion index.
Governance: 
Acting 
responsibly
Conduct training
8
Customer satisfaction
9
99%
4 out of 6
3 out of 6
Employees who completed 
conduct training in 2024.
(2023: 98%)
Target: At least 98% of employees 
complete conduct and financial 
crime training each year.
WPB markets that sustained topthree rank and/or improved in 
customer satisfaction.
(2023: 3 out of 6)
Target: To be ranked top three and/or 
improve customer satisfaction rank.
CMB markets that sustained topthree rank and/or improved in 
customer satisfaction.
(2023: 5 out of 6)
Target: To be ranked top three and/or 
improve customer satisfaction rank.
1 For further details of our approach to transition to net zero, methodology and third-party limited assurance reports on financed emissions, sustainable finance and 
investment progress, and our own operations’ scope 1, 2 and 3 (business travel and supply chain) greenhouse gas emissions data, see www.hsbc.com/who-weare/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
2 In October 2020, we announced our ambition to provide and facilitate between $750bn to $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030. For further details 
and breakdown, see the ESG review on page 45. For details of how this ambition links with the scorecards, see page 297. 
3 This absolute greenhouse gas emission figure covers scope 1, scope 2 and scope 3 (business travel) emissions. For further details of how this ambition links with 
the scorecards, see page 297. 
4 See page 48 for further details of our interim targets, which include combined on-balance sheet financed emissions and facilitated emission targets for two 
emissions intensive sectors: oil and gas, and power and utilities. The remaining five sectors for which we have set on-balance sheet financed emissions targets are: 
cement; iron, steel and aluminium; aviation; automotive; and thermal coal mining.
5 Senior leadership is classified as those at band 3 and above in our global career band structure. For further details, see the ESG review on page 65. For further 
details of how this ambition links with the scorecards, see page 297.
6 These numerical ambitions do not form part of any US-based senior leader performance or other objectives, or in other jurisdictions where application of such 
should not apply under local law.
7 For further details, see the ESG review on page 67. For details of how this ambition links with the scorecards, see page 297.
8 The completion rate shown relates to the ‘Conduct Matters’ training module that was launched in December 2023 and concluded in 2024, and covers permanent 
 
 
and non-permanent employees (where legally permissible to assign training). For completion rates related to financial crime training, see the ESG review on page 80.
9 The markets where we report rank positions for WPB and CMB – the UK, Hong Kong, mainland China, India, Mexico and Singapore – are in line with the annual 
executive scorecards. For further details of customer satisfaction, see the ESG review on page 77. For further details of how this target links with the scorecards, see 
page 297.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
17
Strategic report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) TCFD
The Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on 
Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) 
recommendations set an important 
framework for understanding and analysing 
climate-related risks, and we are committed 
to regular and transparent reporting to help 
communicate and track our progress. We 
also seek to advocate for the same from our 
customers, suppliers and the industry.
We have set out our key climate-related 
financial disclosures throughout the Annual 
Report and Accounts 2024 and related 
disclosures. We recognise that further work 
lies ahead as we continue to develop our 
management and reporting capabilities. In 
2024, we enhanced our disclosures, such as 
the portfolio breakdown for Energy 
Performance Certificate (‘EPC’) ratings into 
owner-occupied and buy-to-let properties.
We have considered our ‘comply or explain’ 
obligation under both the UK Financial 
Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules and 
Sections 414CA and 414CB of the UK 
Companies Act 2006, and confirm that we 
have made disclosures consistent with the 
TCFD Recommendations and Recommended 
Disclosures, including its annexes and 
supplemental guidance, save for certain 
items, which we summarise below.
– We set interim 2030 financed emissions 
targets. However, we use different time 
horizons for climate risk management. For 
climate risk, we define short term as time 
periods up to 2026; medium term between 
2027 and 2035; and long term between 
2036 and 2050. For financed emissions we 
do not plan to set 2026 targets. In 2024, we 
disclosed interim 2030 targets for financed 
emissions for seven sectors as outlined on 
page 52. Following this, we have set 
combined on-balance sheet financed 
emissions and facilitated emissions targets 
for two emissions intensive sectors: oil and 
gas, and power and utilities. We have also 
set targets for on-balance sheet financed 
emissions for the following five sectors: 
cement; iron, steel and aluminium; aviation; 
automotive; and thermal coal mining. 
– The methodology and data used for 
financed emissions is evolving. We expect 
industry guidance, market practice, data 
availability, scenarios and regulatory 
disclosure requirements to continue to 
change, along with the shape of our own 
business. We have begun a review of our 
2030 financed emissions targets and 
associated policies, as part of the annual 
review of our NZTP that we referenced in 
our 3Q24 earnings release in October.
– We do not fully disclose impacts from 
climate-related opportunities on financial 
planning and performance, including on 
revenue, costs and the balance sheet, 
quantitative scenario analysis, detailed 
climate risk exposures for all sectors and 
geographies or physical risk metrics. This is 
due to transitional challenges in relation to 
data limitations, although nascent work is 
ongoing in these areas. We expect these 
data limitations to be addressed in the 
medium term as more reliable data 
becomes available and technology solutions 
are implemented.
– We currently focus on disclosing only four 
out of 15 categories of scope 3 greenhouse 
gas emissions including business travel, 
supply chain and financed emissions, 
following our internal materiality 
assessment. In relation to financed 
emissions, we publish on-balance sheet 
financed emissions for a number of sectors, 
covering 2.7% of our loans and advances to 
customers at 31 December 2023, as 
detailed on page 56. We also publish 
facilitated emissions for the oil and gas, and 
power and utilities sectors. Data quality of 
future disclosures on financed emissions 
and related risks are reliant on our 
customers publicly disclosing their 
greenhouse gas emissions, targets and 
plans, and related risks. We recognise the 
need to provide early transparency on 
climate disclosures but balance this with the 
recognition that existing data and reporting 
processes continue to require significant 
enhancements. 
 For a full summary of our TCFD disclosures, 
including detailed disclosure locations for 
additional information, see pages 444 to 450.
ESG disclosure map and directory 
The table below sets out the key non-financial information, including risks and policies on environmental, social and governance matters, and 
where it can be found:
Transition to 
net zero
At a glance
Read more on our approach to the transition and 
understanding our climate reporting
 Page 42
Supporting our customers
Read more on our progress made against our $750bn to 
$1tn sustainable finance and investment ambition
 Page 45
Partnering for systemic change
Read more on how we partner externally in support of 
systemic change, including an update on our Climate 
Solutions Partnership
 Page 47
Embedding net zero
Read more on our progress made against our ambition to 
achieve net zero in our financed emissions by 2050
 Page 48
Read more on our progress in decarbonising our own 
operations and supply chain
 Page 58
Read more on our sustainability risk policies and our 
thermal coal exposures 
 Page 61
Detailed Task Force on Climate-related 
Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’)
We make disclosures consistent with Task Force on Climaterelated Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) recommendations,
 Page 444
highlighted with the symbol: TCFD
Build 
inclusion and 
resilience
Inclusion disclosures 
Read more on how we are building an inclusive 
environment that reflects our customers and communities, 
and our latest pay gap statistics
 Page 63
Pay gap disclosures
 Page 65
Act 
responsibly
How we govern ESG 
Read more on our approach to ESG governance and 
human rights
 Page 74
 Page 75
Human rights disclosures
How our ESG ambitions link to 
executive remuneration
Read more on our ESG ambitions embedded in executive 
remuneration
 Page 17
 Pages 284 to 300
ESG Data 
Pack
Detailed ESG information 
Our ESG Data Pack provides more granular ESG 
information, including the breakdown of our sustainable 
finance and investment progress, and complaints volumes
www.hsbc.com/esg
Strategic Report
18
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Responsible business culture
We have a responsibility to help protect our 
customers, our communities and the integrity 
of the financial system.
Employee matters 
We are building a responsible business culture 
that values difference, takes responsibility, 
seeks different perspectives and upholds good 
standards of conduct.
There may be times when our colleagues need 
to speak up about behaviours in the workplace 
and in the first instance we encourage 
colleagues to speak to their line manager. Our 
annual employee survey showed that 85% of 
colleagues have trust in their direct manager. 
HSBC Confidential is our whistleblowing 
channel, which allows colleagues past and 
present to raise concerns confidentially and, if 
preferred, anonymously (subject to local laws). 
Our Snapshot survey showed that 80% of 
colleagues feel able to speak up when they see 
behaviours they consider to be wrong.
Our inclusion index measures our colleagues’ 
sense of belonging and psychological safety 
within the organisation, and in 2024 this 
remained unchanged at 78%. 
To help address under-representation across 
our colleague base, we have an ambition to 
achieve a 35% representation of women in 
senior leadership roles (classified as those at 
band 3 and above in our global career band 
structure) by 20251. We remain on track, 
having achieved 34.6% in 2024.
We have an ambition to increase our Black 
heritage senior leader representation in both the 
UK and US combined to 3.4% by 20251. In 2024 
we maintained our position at 3.0%.
Our hiring practices are merit-based, and we 
seek to ensure that every candidate, regardless 
of their identity and background, has an equal 
opportunity to demonstrate their skill and 
potential. We have identified specific Groupwide priorities, which we track and monitor 
progress against. We adapt implementation of 
our strategy across international operations to 
ensure it remains relevant locally. We have 
enabled 93% of our colleagues to disclose their 
ethnicity, with 67% currently choosing to do so, 
where this is legally permissible. 
1 
These numerical ambitions do not form part of 
any US-based senior leader performance or other 
objectives, or in other jurisdictions where 
application of such should not apply under local 
law.
The table below outlines high-level 
representation metrics. 
All employees
48.8%
51.2%
Senior leadership
1
65.4%
34.6%
Holdings Board
46.2%
53.8%
1 Senior leadership is classified as those at band 3 
and above in our global career band structure.
 For further details of how we look after our 
people, including our inclusion ambitions, how 
we encourage our employees to speak up, and 
our approach to employee conduct, see the 
Social section of the ESG review on page 63.
Listening to our customers
We continue to listen, learn and act on our 
customers’ feedback. We use the net 
promoter system to share customer feedback 
with our front-line teams, allowing them to 
respond directly to customers. We also have 
dedicated global forums to promote ongoing 
improvement of our customers’ experience. 
Social matters
We aim to help provide people and 
communities with the skills and knowledge 
needed to thrive through the transition to a 
sustainable future. For this reason, we focus 
our support on programmes that help build 
inclusion and resilience. We also support 
climate solutions and innovation, and 
contribute to disaster relief. For examples of 
our programmes, see the ‘Engaging with our 
communities’ section of the ESG review on 
page 72.
Human rights 
As set out in our Human Rights Statement, we 
recognise the role of business in respecting 
human rights. Our approach is guided by the 
UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human 
Rights (‘UNGPs’) and the OECD Guidelines for 
Multinational Enterprises on Responsible 
Business Conduct. Our Human Rights 
Statement and annual statements under the 
UK Modern Slavery Act, are available on 
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-andresponsible-business/esg-reporting-centre. For 
further details of our approach, see the 
‘Human rights’ section of the ESG review on 
page 75.
Anti-corruption and anti-bribery
We are required to comply with all applicable 
anti-bribery and corruption laws in every 
market and jurisdiction in which we operate. 
We seek to focus on the spirit of relevant laws 
and regulations to demonstrate our 
commitment to ethical behaviours and 
conduct as part of our environmental, social 
and corporate governance.
Environmental matters
For details of our climate ambition and carbon 
emission metrics, see the ESG review on 
page 42.
Group non-financial and sustainability 
information statement
This section primarily covers Group nonfinancial and sustainability information as 
required by applicable regulations. Other 
related information can be found as follows:
 For further details of our key performance 
indicators, see page 1. 
 For further details of our business model, see 
page 4.
 For further details of our principal risks and 
how they are managed, see pages 37 to 39.
 For further details of our TCFD disclosures, 
including alignment with sections 414CA and 
414CB of the Companies Act 2006, see pages 
444 to 450.
Helping to boost reforestation in the Amazon basin 
We acted as sole bookrunner and structuring bank for the World Bank’s $225m, 9-year 
principal-protected Amazon reforestation-linked outcome bond, their largest outcome bond 
issued to date. Under this bond, up to $36m of capital will be mobilised to support 
reforestation activities undertaken by Mombak, the Brazilian project sponsor. Mombak intends 
to use these funds to reforest degraded land with native tree species, and in doing so seek to 
generate carbon removal credits.
This transaction is the first ever carbon removal credit-backed financing in international debt 
capital markets. It represents a new, blended finance solution to help lower the cost of capital 
for highly capital-intensive, nature-based solutions.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
19
Male
Female
Male
Female
Male
Female
Strategic report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Board decision making and 
engagement with stakeholders 
The Board is committed to effective engagement with our 
stakeholders and seeks to understand their interests and the 
impacts on them when making decisions.
Section 172(1) statement
The Board recognises the importance of 
engaging with stakeholders effectively to 
ensure their interests and priorities are 
understood and given due consideration in 
Board discussions and decision-making. In 
2024, the Directors took part in a 
comprehensive stakeholder engagement 
programme, meeting with stakeholders 
directly where practicable and ensuring the 
outcomes of engagement activities were 
reported to the Board. Further details of the 
Board’s engagement with stakeholders are 
set out below. Our section 172(1) statement 
is set out on pages 20 to 23 and describes 
how the Directors have had regard to the 
matters set out in section 172(1) (a) to (f) of 
the Companies Act 2006 when discharging 
their duty to promote the success of the 
company. It includes examples of principal 
decisions taken by the Board and how 
relevant stakeholder impacts were 
considered as part of the Board’s decisionmaking.
Directors’ engagements with key stakeholders in 2024
Stakeholders
Engagement
Impact and outcomes
Customers
We recognise that the 
greater our understanding of 
our customers’ needs, the 
better we can help support 
them to achieve their 
financial aims and succeed in 
our purpose and strategy.
– Meetings with key customers in various regions 
and engagement events with business customers 
to discuss challenges and opportunities in their 
relevant markets.
– Introductory meetings between the new Group 
CEO and key clients across global markets. 
– Regular reports to the Board on customer 
matters, including operational resilience, 
customer experiences across the Group and 
results of retail customer surveys, including 
changes to net promoter scores.
– Continued engagement with customers around the world helped 
to further the Board’s understanding of their respective needs, 
including how the Group can support customers to achieve their 
varied goals, including during their transition to net zero.
– Customer surveys provided insights into how the Group can drive 
meaningful improvements in outcomes for customers. 
– Reports from management highlight where there are 
opportunities for innovation and collaboration with our customers 
and support the Board’s oversight of Group activities to ensure 
such innovations are aligned with Group risk appetite and strategic 
objectives. 
Employees
We want to continue to be a 
positive place to work and 
build careers, with the 
success of the Group’s 
strategy dependent upon 
having motivated people 
with the expertise and skills 
required to deliver it.
– Regular internal communications and 
presentations from the Group CEO and Group 
CFO to keep the workforce informed of business 
performance, and leadership and other 
organisational changes.
– Employee events, including leadership forums, 
webcasts, town halls, off-sites and employee 
exchange sessions, as well as events that form 
part of the workforce engagement programme led 
by the dedicated workforce engagement nonexecutive Director, including visits to several 
Global Service Centres.
– Participation in sessions with senior leaders in 
multiple jurisdictions to discuss Group 
performance and strategy, including a global town 
hall co-hosted by the Group CEO for global 
sustainability colleagues to discuss sustainability 
matters.
– Interaction with leads of employee resource 
groups and participation at multiple events in 
many jurisdictions.
– Meeting with colleagues across jurisdictions allowed Directors to 
hear first-hand views on important issues, including inclusion 
matters, talent development and the employee experience.
– Workforce engagements and interactions helped to ensure 
continued connectivity between the Board and the workforce, 
inform Board discussions and decision making and enhance 
understanding of the Group culture across different geographies. 
Such engagements also help enable the Board to put into 
perspective employee Snapshot survey results and monitor 
activity in response to matters raised.
– Directors taking part in the Bank Director Programme shared their 
experiences and knowledge with the employees enrolled to 
qualify as Group subsidiary directors. Such sessions provided 
participants with the opportunity to ask questions and 
demonstrate how good governance practices are embedded 
throughout the Group. Following the success of this programme, 
a second Director-sponsored development programme launched 
in November 2024, aimed at prospective and existing employee 
subsidiary chairs. 
– Internal communications by executive Directors helped increase 
awareness among the workforce of Group performance and 
significant developments during the year, including changes to 
executive leadership and the organisational structure. This 
engagement aims to promote better understanding of and 
engagement with the Group’s strategic aims across the 
workforce. Employee engagement with Group strategy is 
monitored through annual Snapshot surveys, the results of which 
are presented to the Board.
Strategic Report
20
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Stakeholders
Engagement
Impact and outcomes
Investors
We seek to understand 
investor needs and 
sentiment through ongoing 
dialogue and a variety of 
engagements with both 
retail and institutional 
investors.
– The Group Chairman and the Group CEO held a 
Q&A session with retail shareholders at the annual 
Informal Shareholders’ Meeting in Hong Kong.
– As part of the hybrid 2024 AGM, shareholders were 
able to ask questions of the Board during the 
meeting, either virtually or in person.
– Directors attended the inaugural HSBC Global 
Investment Summit held in Hong Kong in April 
2024, at which the Group Chairman and Group CEO 
also presented.
– The Group Chairman and the Senior Independent 
Director met with a number of large institutional 
investors.
– The Group CEO and the Group CFO, together and 
separately, attended meetings with investors.
– In addition to routine meetings with top investors 
and proxy advisors, the Group Remuneration 
Committee Chair led a consultation with 
shareholders on proposed updates to the Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy, which will be put to 
shareholder vote at the 2025 AGM.
– The Group Chairman and the Group CEO and Group 
CFO presented the interim and year-end results to 
analysts and investors and engaged in Q&A 
sessions.
– Regular interactions with institutional and retail investors 
throughout the year helped the Board to understand investor 
sentiment regarding material matters such as strategy delivery 
and outlook, transition to net zero, and to gauge investors’ 
continued support for the Group. 
– Q&A sessions at analyst and investor briefings and meetings with 
Directors and senior management provide investors with the 
opportunity to learn more about the Group’s strategic direction 
and offered the Board insight into investor priorities and areas of 
interest. 
– The outcomes of targeted engagement at management level on 
key topics of investor interest were reported to the Board to help 
enable its continued monitoring of responses to key matters of 
strategic importance, which during the year has included our first 
net zero transition plan and financial targets.
– For details of the Group Remuneration Committee Chair’s 
engagements with key investors and proxy advisory firms, and 
how they were taken into account by the Group Remuneration 
Committee in its decision making and in the development of the 
Directors’ Remuneration Policy, see the Directors’ remuneration 
report on pages 279 to 317.
– Building on the success of the inaugural HSBC Global Investment 
Summit, a second summit has been scheduled to take place in 
2025. The summit provides a forum for open and frank exchange 
of thoughts and ideas between world-class experts, political 
leaders, institutional investors and top decision-makers.
Communities
We seek to play an 
important role in supporting 
the communities in which 
we operate through our 
corporate social 
responsibility and broader 
engagement activities.
– Directors met with an environmental non-profit 
organisation affiliated with WWF to discuss the 
Group’s ongoing partnership arrangements. 
– Director attendance at summits to facilitate 
engagement with philanthropic partners and civil 
society on issues relevant to our communities, 
such as the World Economic Forum, Abu Dhabi 
Sustainability Week and New York Climate Week.
– Meetings with members of the Sustainable 
Markets Initiative Council to discuss priorities and 
opportunities.
– Meetings with charitable partners enabled the Directors to better 
understand the Group’s impact within local communities as an 
employer, sponsor, collaborator and supporter.
– These engagements provided opportunities for Directors to learn 
from and engage in an exchange of knowledge and ideas with 
subject-matter experts in areas including nature conservation, 
sustainable aviation fuel and carbon reduction solutions. These in 
turn, give context for Board decision-making on sustainability 
matters and inform discussions about the Group’s own net zero 
ambitions. 
Regulators and 
governments
Maintaining constructive 
dialogue and relations with 
the relevant authorities in 
the markets in which we 
operate helps support the 
achievement of our strategic 
aims. 
– Various meetings across our key markets with 
heads of state, international leaders and 
government officials.
– Regular meetings with and presentations from our 
regulators, including the PRA and FCA, as well as 
introductory meetings with the newly appointed 
Group CEO.
– Presentations made by the Group Chairman and 
Group CEO at regulatory forums.
– Targeted outreach to key international regulatory 
bodies and government officials on key topics of 
regulatory and community interest, including our 
net zero transition, changes to executive leadership 
and geopolitical matters.
– Regular reports and updates to the Board from 
management regarding regulatory and political 
developments relevant to the Group.
– Frequent and varied engagements between the Board and heads 
of state, international leaders, government officials and regulators 
provided an opportunity for open dialogue on matters of regulatory 
interest and strategic importance.
– Through meetings with international officials, and at presentations 
given by the Group Chairman, Group CEO and other senior leaders 
at regulatory forums, Directors were able to communicate the 
Group’s strategy, perspectives and insights while helping to 
ensure that they remained abreast of political and regulatory 
developments. It also allowed the Board opportunities to share 
perspectives on industry best practices.
– Regular reports from management enabled the Board to monitor 
the Group’s responses to geopolitical and regulatory changes and 
ensure that appropriate resources and controls are in place. Such 
reports are critical to ensuring that the Board continues to 
understand and meet its regulatory obligations, and also provide 
valuable context to the Board’s strategic discussions.
Suppliers
We engage with suppliers, 
which helps us operate our 
business effectively and 
execute our strategy.
– Regular reports were provided to the Board from 
the Group Chief Operating Officer which included 
outcomes of engagement with suppliers and 
updates on supplier risks and priorities across the 
Group.
– Meetings with key suppliers to discuss how 
technology solutions may be enhanced through AI 
and data and opportunities for innovation, 
particularly in the areas of improving customer 
experience, risk management and operational 
resilience, and regulatory compliance. 
– Meeting with our suppliers helped the Directors understand our 
suppliers’ challenges, where there are opportunities for 
collaboration and innovation and where there are opportunities 
within our own operations.
– Management reports enabled the Board, supported by the Group 
Risk Committee, to monitor management of third-party risk, the 
delivery of the Group data programme, and to ensure that 
sustainable capabilities are in place for delivery of the Group’s 
strategic objectives.
– It is important for the Board to understand the Group’s supply 
chain and how suppliers’ operations align to our values and codes 
of conduct. Board reports on such matters, and on the outcomes 
of supplier engagements, provide context and support the Board’s 
understanding when reviewing and approving the annual 
statement under the UK Modern Slavery Act.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
21
Strategic report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Principal strategic decisions
The Board is responsible for setting and 
monitoring execution against the Group 
strategy. When taking principal decisions in 
2024, the Directors considered the likely 
short- and long-term consequences of the 
decision, how it aligned with our strategic 
priorities, and any other relevant matters, 
including those arising under section 172(1) 
of the Companies Act 2006, in accordance 
with their duties. 
To enable the Board to operate effectively in 
this regard, good governance practices have 
been adopted and are implemented in the 
course of Board meetings administration. 
Governance features as an agenda item at all 
scheduled Board meetings. Papers presented 
to the Board for its consideration are 
expected to follow a template to help ensure 
that Directors have the appropriate 
information to take informed decisions. The 
template requires authors to, among other 
things, describe any steps taken or to be 
taken, to engage with relevant stakeholders, 
explain the extent to which stakeholders are, 
or will be impacted by the matter under 
consideration, and how this has influenced 
the recommendation to the Board. The 
following pages describe some examples of 
how the Board operated during the year with 
regard to the matters under sections 172(1) 
(a) – (f) of the Companies Act 2006 in the 
course of taking principal strategic decisions. 
Executive Director Changes 
In April 2024, the Group announced that Sir 
Noel Quinn would be retiring from his role as 
Group CEO and the Board began a formal 
process to appoint a successor. As Group 
CEO, Sir Noel Quinn drove a transformative 
phase for the bank, leading the execution of 
its revenue repositioning and overall 
simplification through disposal of non-core 
assets. In making the decision to appoint a 
new Group CEO, the Board had in mind the 
overall strategic direction and desired culture 
of the Group and the skills and experience 
required to navigate the next phase of growth 
and development. 
The Board takes a long-term view to 
succession planning and keeps this under 
continual review, supported by the dedicated 
work of the Nomination & Corporate 
Governance Committee. Upon confirmation 
of Sir Noel Quinn’s retirement, a formal 
executive search process was undertaken, 
supported by an external executive search 
agency and led by the Nomination & 
Corporate Governance Committee. The 
search process considered internal and 
external candidates with the depth of 
knowledge and understanding required to 
lead an organisation with the global scale and 
complex nature of HSBC. 
In July 2024, the Board announced its 
decision to appoint Georges Elhedery, then 
Group CFO, as Group CEO. In determining 
that Georges Elhedery was the right 
candidate for the role, the Board took into 
account his exceptional leadership and 
proven track record of leading through 
change, driving growth, delivering 
simplification, prudent risk management and 
cost discipline. Georges has extensive 
international experience and during his time 
at HSBC has developed strong and 
productive relationships with various 
stakeholders, evidenced through positive 
feedback received from analysts, investors 
and colleagues.
The Board’s decision to appoint Georges in 
the role of Group CEO was further influenced 
by his clear and ambitious vision of HSBC’s 
ability to deliver for its customers, investors, 
employees and communities with a strong 
focus on execution. Since his appointment, 
Georges has prioritised meetings with 
customers, employees and other 
stakeholders in HSBC’s home markets as 
well as key growth areas to continue to 
develop these relationships in his new role.
The Board, together with the Nomination & 
Corporate Governance Committee, undertook a 
further executive search process to appoint a 
successor to the role of Group CFO. Following 
Board approval, it was announced in July 2024 
that Jonathan Bingham would be appointed as 
interim Group CFO, with effect from 2 
September 2024, to provide strategic leadership 
and continuity during the search for a permanent 
candidate. In October 2024, the company 
announced that Pam Kaur, then Group Chief 
Risk and Compliance Officer, would be 
appointed as Group CFO with effect from 1 
January 2025. In taking this appointment 
decision, the Board took into consideration 
Pam’s strong technical expertise and 
appreciation of the global challenges facing the 
Group, and the banking industry more broadly, 
together with her reputation within HSBC. 
Throughout the executive Director 
appointment processes, both the Board and 
the Nomination & Corporate Governance 
Committee oversaw engagement with 
regulators and the necessary regulatory 
approval processes. See the Nomination & 
Corporate Governance Committee Report on 
page 259 for further information about the 
appointment and induction process of the 
Group CEO and the Group CFO respectively, 
and the Board’s succession planning activities. 
Group Strategy 
Over the last five years, the Group has 
repositioned its portfolio away from non-core 
markets and directed revenue into higher 
growth areas. Through meetings with, and 
regular updates from senior management 
across the Group, the Board continues to 
monitor strategic execution and alignment 
over geographical and business areas, 
including in the context of changing 
geopolitical and macroeconomic factors, with 
due regard to the impacts of its operations on 
stakeholders. The Board took time during the 
year to consider strategic key performance 
indicators and the Group CEO provided 
regular updates and progress reports on 
these. 
The Board receives regional strategic updates 
from management to inform its 
understanding of business performance and 
alignment with long-term Group strategy. 
During the year, and following conclusion of 
the sale of HSBC Bank Canada, the Board 
endorsed a number of transactions to further 
the Group’s core ambitions. One such 
transaction was the sale of the Group’s 
business in Argentina. A strategic review of 
the business was undertaken which 
considered whether it supported our strategy 
for international expansion and growth. 
The review concluded that HSBC Argentina, 
as a largely domestically-focused business, 
had limited connectivity with the Group’s 
international network, and further contributed 
to earnings volatility when its results were 
converted to USD. Consideration was given 
to regulatory matters, the impacts of a sale 
on our employees and customers, particularly 
the impacts of migration and continuity of 
services, and it was concluded that the 
prospective buyer was well positioned to take 
the business forward. The Board also took 
the decision to explore the sale of the 
Group’s private banking business in Germany, 
in alignment with the Group’s strategic 
direction. Following a review, it was noted 
that the German business was primarily 
focused on domestic clients and had not 
been integrated into the Global Private 
Banking business more widely. It was
Strategic Report
22
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Group Strategy continued
determined that, to maintain focus on Global 
Private Banking’s strategic objectives and 
prioritise focus on our international 
connectivity to scale growth in alignment 
with our strategy, it would be favourable for 
the business to enter into an arrangement 
with an organisation better placed to grow 
and invest in the business. The Board 
supported a sale of the private banking 
business to a suitable buyer.
Following Georges Elhedery’s appointment 
as Group CEO, he has been focused on 
driving a more streamlined and dynamic 
organisational structure to enable the Board 
and management to execute at pace. During 
the year, the Board provided oversight and 
challenge to management on plans to 
accelerate the delivery of this strategy. In 
October 2024, the Board approved a 
simplification of the Group’s organisational 
structure, to take effect from 1 January 2025, 
in order to create a more agile business that 
makes it easier for colleagues to achieve best 
in class service for our customers, and drive 
the future success of the Group for the 
benefit of all our stakeholders over the long 
term. 
As part of its meetings, the Board monitors 
the results of the annual employee Snapshot 
survey and receives regular updates on 
customer initiatives and priorities from across 
the Group. Annual Snapshot survey results
have indicated that employees want to be 
empowered to get things done, which is one 
of our core values. This feedback, together 
with the Board’s ongoing monitoring of 
customer needs, helped inform the Board’s 
consideration of the new structure, with its 
key aims: to simplify and improve internal 
decision-making processes and 
accountability; and enable colleagues to be 
better positioned to serve our customers 
quickly and effectively. 
The Board further considered the impacts of 
organisational changes on employees and our 
relationships with customers, investors and 
regulators. The new structure will help foster 
clearer communication, empower teams, and 
reduce the complexity of reporting lines, with 
a focus on improving the employee 
experience at the Group and ultimately 
providing better outcomes for our customers 
and communities. The Board will oversee and 
monitor the implementation of the new 
organisational structure and its impacts over 
the course of 2025.
As HSBC accelerates delivery of its strategy, 
the Board has also given considerable 
thought to how to optimise the Group’s 
governance and leadership structure, while 
continuing to generate sustainable returns 
and maintain a reputation for high standards 
of business conduct. 
During the year, the Board looked closely at 
formulating the right organisational structure 
to create a transparent and accountable 
leadership team and has overseen significant 
changes to the Group Executive Committee 
(‘GEC’) and approved several key 
appointments. In conjunction with the wider 
business simplification, from 1 January 2025, 
the Board endorsed that the 18 member GEC 
would be replaced by a new Group Operating 
Committee comprised of 12 members, which 
will serve as the leading executive decisionmaking committee for the Group. In taking 
the decision to approve this change, the 
Board had regard to the governance and 
oversight requirements of the Group, and the 
likely impacts on employees and customers 
and our ongoing commitments to our 
regulators. 
The Board has further reviewed the 
Committee structure and identified areas of 
improvement, leading to the creation of a 
new Board Sustainability Working Group 
(‘SWG’) (see page 249), changes to the 
Group’s Technology and Operations 
Committee (see page 276) and combining of 
the ESG Committee and Sustainability 
Execution Committee (see page 249) as 
explained in further detail below. 
Sustainability 
The Board is responsible for setting the 
Group’s ESG strategy and takes a direct and 
active role in monitoring the Group’s progress 
towards its ESG ambitions. ESG remains an 
important area of focus for the Board, and 
ESG matters were considered at most of its 
meetings during the course of the year. An 
ESG dashboard is presented to the Board 
regularly, which contains key metrics to help 
the Board monitor progress against the 
Group’s ESG ambitions and drive informed 
discussions and decision making.
In January 2024, the Group published its first 
net zero transition plan which outlines the 
proposed steps for delivering the Group’s 
ambition to align its financing portfolio to net 
zero by 2050. Since its publication, the Board 
has been informed of feedback from 
customers, investors and shareholder groups, 
and government officials, all of which have 
provided valuable context to Board 
discussions on the progress and 
development of its sustainability agenda.
In recognition of the complexity of the 
sustainability landscape and real-world 
transition challenges, the Board established 
the SWG, comprised of five non-executive 
Directors and supported by members of 
executive management, including the Group 
CEO and Group CFO. This working group has 
an initial remit to provide oversight and 
guidance in relation to the Group’s 
sustainability activities, including the targets 
and timelines set out in the net zero transition 
plan, key sustainability risk policies and 
communication with key stakeholder groups. 
The SWG provides strategic input and 
guidance as appropriate and its areas of focus 
and priority are kept under review as needed. 
The SWG is actively involved in the 
consideration of our approach to net zero 
transition, covered in more detail within our 
ESG update on page 3 and our ESG overview 
on page 15.
As part of the Board’s aim to simplify and 
optimise the Group’s governance and 
leadership frameworks, the Board also 
reviewed the effectiveness of the executive 
level ESG governance structure and 
associated reporting to the Board. Following 
this review, in 2024 the Board endorsed the 
rationalisation of the ESG Committee and 
Sustainability Execution Committee into a 
single governance body, the ‘ESG 
Committee’. The newly constituted ESG 
Committee continues to report to the new 
Group Operating Committee, with escalation 
of matters to the SWG or the Board, as 
appropriate. This consolidation allows for 
greater Board oversight of significant ESG 
and sustainability matters, and more 
streamlined reporting of key matters up to 
Board level. 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
23
Strategic report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Remuneration
Our remuneration policy supports the achievement of our strategic objectives 
by aligning reward with our long-term sustainable performance.
Remuneration for our executive Directors
At the 2025 Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’), 
we will be seeking shareholder approval for a 
new executive Director remuneration policy. 
Over several years, the Group Remuneration 
Committee has expressed concerns around 
the competitiveness of the executive Director 
remuneration opportunity and indicated a 
preference to operate a policy with a higher 
proportion of the package based on variable 
pay linked to performance, aligned to practice 
among our international peers.
The removal of the limits on the ratio between 
fixed and variable pay by the UK regulators 
provides an opportunity to revisit our current 
Directors’ remuneration policy and the 
Committee feels that now is the right time to 
set a policy that better reflects the Group’s 
focus on long-term sustainable performance.
After careful consideration, the Committee 
concluded that the current variable pay 
framework of an annual incentive and single 
performance-based long-term incentive is most 
appropriate. The Committee considered the 
right approach is to unwind the changes made 
in 2014, when the 2:1 pay ratio was introduced 
and to reset the maximum opportunity.
The Committee reflected on the appropriate 
maximum opportunity for the Group CEO and 
Group CFO considering (i) the maximum 
opportunity in 2014; (ii) market data for our 
international banking peers and the largest 
FTSE 30 companies, reflecting that HSBC is 
one of the world’s leading international banks; 
and (iii) compression challenges within the 
senior HSBC team. 
We will continue to set a scorecard of 
stretching and quantitative financial and 
strategic performance targets aligned to our 
strategy and stakeholder interests. Maximum 
pay outcomes will be delivered only for 
exceptional performance as required by these 
targets.
The Committee engaged with major investors 
on the new remuneration policy and the Chair 
of the Committee met with many shareholders 
directly. Shareholders we spoke to were 
generally supportive of our proposal and their 
feedback has directly influenced the final 
policy. We would like to thank our shareholders 
for the time taken to engage with us during the 
year.
 For details of our proposed executive Director 
remuneration policy, see page 284.
2024 remuneration decisions
The Committee considered carefully the 
wider context in which performance was 
delivered in 2024 and judged that the overall 
scorecard outcome for both Sir Noel Quinn 
and Georges Elhedery was appropriate 
against the targets set at the start of the year 
for financial, strategic and personal measures.
The Committee also carefully considered the 
executive Directors’ pay outcomes in the 
context of pay decisions made for the wider 
workforce and determined that these were 
an appropriate reflection of Group, business 
and individual performance delivered in 2024.
Executive Directors’ scorecard outcomes 
(% of maximum opportunity)
2024 annual incentive
Sir Noel Quinn
77.81%
Georges Elhedery
78.79%
2022–2024 long-term incentive
Sir Noel Quinn
75.00%
Georges Elhedery
75.00%
 For details of Directors’ pay and performance for 
2024, see the Directors’ remuneration report on 
page 296.
Remuneration for our colleagues
Our focus remains on taking actions that 
improve our ability to attract, retain and 
energise colleagues to deliver high 
performance and growth.
Rewarding colleagues responsibly
Fixed pay increases for 2025 were 
determined based on consistent principles to 
help address wage inflation in the markets 
where we operate.
We will award an average global fixed pay 
increase of 3.6% in 2025, compared with 
4.4% for the previous year, reflecting that 
projected wage inflation is lower in many of 
our markets.
We continue to review all wages globally 
against local Living Wage benchmarks to help 
ensure we pay responsibly and provide 
financial security to colleagues. We are proud 
to have been certified by the Fair Wage 
Network as a global Living Wage employer 
for 2025. 
Recognising colleagues’ success
We introduced new performance routines 
and changes to performance assessment for 
over 200,000 colleagues in 58 markets.
We also introduced a new variable pay 
structure for over 150,000 colleagues, 
providing more clarity around variable pay 
levels for on-target performance, and how 
this is impacted by Group, business and 
individual performance.
The Group Remuneration Committee 
determined overall variable pay of $3,800m 
(2023: $3,774m). This followed a review of 
our performance against financial and nonfinancial metrics set out in the Group risk 
framework. Our highest performers received 
the largest increases in variable pay 
compared with the previous year.
Variable pay pool
($m)
3,800
3,774
 For details of how the Group Remuneration 
Committee sets the pool, see page 283.
Supporting colleagues to grow
In our employee Snapshot survey, 78% of 
respondents said they believe HSBC 
genuinely cares about their well-being, a 
record high. We have been ranked number 
one for workplace mental health for the third 
year running in the Global CCLA Corporate 
Mental Health Benchmark 2024. We have 
prioritised supporting colleagues to work 
flexibly, balancing customer needs, social 
connection and individual flexibility.
Strategic Report
24
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
2024
2023

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Financial overview
In assessing the Group’s financial performance, management uses a range 
of financial measures that focus on the delivery of sustainable returns for 
our shareholders and maintaining our financial strength.
Executive summary
We delivered a strong performance in 2024 
with reported profit before tax of $32.3bn, up 
$2.0bn or 6% compared with 2023. Our 
financial performance demonstrates the 
progress against our strategic priorities. 
In 2024, we achieved a return on average 
tangible equity (‘RoTE’) of 14.6% and a RoTE 
excluding notable items of 16.0%. We have 
now further extended our mid-teens RoTE 
target in each of the three years from 2025 to 
2027, excluding notable items.
This section sets out our key Group financial 
targets and the progress we made towards 
these in 2024, and our expectations for 2025 
and beyond. We also include a more detailed 
table covering further key financial metrics that 
we consider insightful for understanding the 
Group’s performance.
The Group financial results that follow provide 
more detailed insight into the performance 
that has driven the outcomes of our financial 
targets. It covers income statement 
performance on both a reported and constant 
currency basis, and the main factors impacting 
the strength of our balance sheet, capital and 
liquidity position. 
Group financial targets
Return on average tangible equity 
excluding notable items 
16.0%
(2023: 16.2%)
In 2024, RoTE was 14.6%, in line with 2023.
For the purposes of measuring performance 
against our Group target, we adjust RoTE to 
exclude notable items. From 1 January 2024, 
we revised the adjustments made to RoTE 
from excluding only the impact of strategic 
transactions and the impairment of BoCom, to 
exclude all notable items. This was intended to 
improve alignment with the treatment of 
notable items in our other income statement 
disclosures. RoTE excluding notable items has 
been re-presented for 2023 on the revised 
basis and we no longer disclose RoTE 
excluding strategic transactions and the 
impairment of BoCom.
RoTE excluding notable items was 16.0%, a 
decrease of 0.2 percentage points compared 
with 2023. 
We are now targeting a mid-teens RoTE in 
each of the three years from 2025 to 2027 
excluding notable items.
Our targets and expectations reflect our 
current outlook for the global macroeconomic 
environment and market-dependent factors, 
such as market-implied interest rates as of midJanuary 2025 and rates of foreign exchange, as 
well as customer behaviour and activity levels.
Target basis operating expenses 
$32.6bn
(2023: $31.1bn)
In 2024, reported operating expenses 
increased by 3.0% compared with 2023. 
Target basis operating expense growth was 
5.1% compared with 2023, in line with our 
target of approximately 5%. Growth primarily 
reflected higher investment spend, including in 
technology and from inflationary pressures.
Our target basis operating expenses for 2024 
excluded the direct cost impact of the disposals 
in France and Canada from the 2023 baseline. It 
is measured on a constant currency basis and 
excludes notable items and the impact of 
retranslating the prior year results of 
hyperinflationary economies at constant currency.
We retain a Group-wide focus on cost 
discipline. We are targeting growth in target 
basis operating expenses of approximately 
3% in 2025 compared with 2024. Our target 
basis operating expenses for 2025 excludes 
the direct cost impact of the business 
disposals in Canada and Argentina, notable 
items and the impact of retranslating the prior 
year results of hyperinflationary economies at 
constant currency.
Our cost target includes the impact of 
simplification-related savings associated with 
our announced reorganisation, which aims to 
generate approximately $0.3bn of cost 
reductions in 2025, with a commitment to an 
annualised reduction of $1.5bn in our cost 
base expected by the end of 2026. To deliver 
these reductions, we plan to incur severance 
and other up-front costs of $1.8bn over 2025 
and 2026, which will be classified as notable 
items. 
Capital and dividend policy
CET1 ratio 
 
14.9%
Dividend payout ratio in respect of 2024 
50%
on a dividend payout ratio target basis.
At 31 December 2024, our CET1 capital ratio 
was 14.9% which was higher than our 
medium-term target range of 14% to 14.5%. 
We intend to continue to manage the CET1 
ratio to within this range.
The total dividend per share in 2024 of $0.87 
included a special dividend of $0.21 per share 
that was paid in June following the completion 
of the sale of HSBC Bank Canada. On a 
dividend payout ratio target basis, this resulted 
in a payout ratio of 50% of earnings per share. 
For the purposes of computing our target basis 
dividend payout ratio, we exclude from 
dividends per share the special dividend of 
$0.21 per share, and we exclude from earnings 
per share material notable items and related 
impacts. See page 121 for our calculation of 
earnings per share.
The Board has established a target basis 
dividend payout ratio of 50% for 2025, 
subject to meeting capital requirements. This 
policy is designed to provide sustainable cash 
dividends, while retaining the flexibility to 
invest and grow the business, supplemented 
by additional shareholder distributions, if 
appropriate.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
25
Strategic report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Key financial metrics
For the year ended 31 Dec
Reported results
2024
2023
2022
Profit before tax ($m)
 
32,309 
30,348 
17,058 
Profit after tax ($m)
 
24,999 
24,559 
16,249 
Revenue ($m)
 
65,854 
66,058 
50,620 
Cost efficiency ratio (%)
 
50.2 
 
48.5 
 
64.6 
Net interest margin (%)
 
1.56 
 
1.66 
 
1.42 
Basic earnings per share ($)
 
1.25 
1.15 
0.72 
Diluted earnings per share ($)
 
1.24 
1.14 
0.72 
Dividend per ordinary share (in respect of the period) ($)
1
 
0.87 
0.61 
0.32 
Dividend payout ratio (%)
2
 
50 
 
50 
 
44 
Alternative performance measures 
Constant currency profit before tax ($m)
 
32,309 
29,903 
16,302 
Constant currency revenue ($m)
 
65,854 
64,912 
49,587 
Constant currency cost efficiency ratio (%)
 
50.2 
 
48.5 
 
65.0 
Constant currency profit before tax excluding notable items ($m)
 
34,122 
32,680 
23,057 
Constant currency revenue excluding notable items ($m)
 
67,434 
64,489 
53,383 
Constant currency profit before tax excluding notable items and strategic transactions ($m)
 
34,037 
32,217 
N/A
Constant currency revenue excluding notable items and strategic transactions ($m)
 
67,256 
63,043 
N/A
Expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges (‘ECL’) as % of average gross loans and advances 
to customers (%)
 
0.36 
 
0.34 
 
0.36 
Expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges (‘ECL’) as % of average gross loans and advances 
to customers, including held for sale (%)
 
0.36 
 
0.32 
 
0.36 
Basic earnings per share excluding material notable items and related impacts ($)
1.31 
1.22 
N/A
Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity (%)
 
13.6 
 
13.6 
 
9.0 
Return on average tangible equity (%)
 
14.6 
 
14.6 
 
10.0 
Return on average tangible equity excluding notable items (%)
16.0
16.2
11.8
Target basis operating expenses ($m)
 
32,648 
31,074 
N/A
At 31 Dec
Balance sheet
2024
2023
2022
Total assets ($m)
 
3,017,048 
3,038,677 
2,949,286 
Net loans and advances to customers ($m)
 
930,658 
938,535 
923,561 
Customer accounts ($m)
 
1,654,955 
1,611,647 
1,570,303 
Average interest-earning assets ($m)
 
2,099,285 
2,161,746 
2,143,758 
Loans and advances to customers as % of customer accounts (%)
 
56.2 
 
58.2 
 
58.8 
Total shareholders’ equity ($m)
 
184,973 
185,329 
177,833 
Tangible ordinary shareholders’ equity ($m)
 
154,295 
155,710 
146,927 
Net asset value per ordinary share at period end ($)
 
9.26 
8.82 
8.01 
Tangible net asset value per ordinary share at period end ($)
 
8.61 
8.19 
7.44 
Capital, leverage and liquidity
Common equity tier 1 capital ratio (%)
3,4
 
14.9 
 
14.8 
 
14.2 
Risk-weighted assets ($m)
3,4
 
838,254 
854,114 
839,720 
Total capital ratio (%)
3,4
 
20.6 
 
20.0 
 
19.3 
Leverage ratio (%)
3,4
 
5.6 
 
5.6 
 
5.8 
High-quality liquid assets (liquidity value) ($m)
4,5
 
649,210 
647,505 
647,046 
Liquidity coverage ratio (%)
4,5,6
 
138 
 
136 
 
132 
Net stable funding ratio (%)
4,5,6,7
 
143 
 
138 
 
141 
Share count
Period end basic number of $0.50 ordinary shares outstanding, after deducting own shares held (millions) 
 
17,918 
19,006 
19,739 
Period end basic number of $0.50 ordinary shares outstanding and dilutive potential ordinary shares, after 
deducting own shares held (millions)
 
18,062 
19,135 
19,876 
Average basic number of $0.50 ordinary shares outstanding, after deducting own shares held (millions)
 
18,357 
19,478 
19,849 
 For reconciliation and analysis of our reported results on a constant currency basis, including lists of notable items, see page 99. Definitions and calculations of other 
alternative performance measures are included in ‘Reconciliation of alternative performance measures’ on page 120.
1 
In 2024, dividend per share includes the special dividend of $0.21 per ordinary share arising from the proceeds of the sale of our banking business in Canada to Royal 
Bank of Canada. 
2 In 2024 and 2023, our dividend payout ratio was adjusted for material notable items and related impacts, including all associated income statement impacts relating to 
those items. In 2022, our dividend payout ratio was adjusted for the loss on classification to held for sale of our retail banking business in France, items relating to the 
sale of our banking business in Canada, and the recognition of certain deferred tax assets. 
3 
Unless otherwise stated, regulatory capital ratios and requirements are based on the transitional arrangements of the Capital Requirements Regulation in force at the 
time. References to EU regulations and directives (including technical standards) should, as applicable, be read as references to the UK‘s version of such regulation or 
directive, as onshored into UK law under the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018, and as may be subsequently amended under UK law.
4 
Regulatory numbers and ratios are as presented at the date of reporting. Small changes may exist between these numbers and ratios and those submitted in regulatory 
filings. Where differences are significant, we may restate in subsequent periods.
5 
The liquidity coverage ratio is based on the average value of the preceding 12 months. The net stable funding ratio is based on the average value of four preceding quarters.
6 We enhanced our liquidity consolidation process in 2Q24 by revising provisions that addressed historical limitations. As our Group LCR and NSFR are reported on an 
average basis, the benefit of these changes incrementally increased our LCR and NSFR by circa 3% and 11% during the year, respectively. Compared to year ended 31 
December 2023, the increase in LCR was mainly driven by these enhancements. The associated NSFR increase driven by these changes was partly offset by higher 
required stable funding primarily due to a rise in financial investments and derivatives activities.
7 We enhanced our calculation processes during 1Q24 and our NSFR comparatives have been restated.
Strategic Report
26
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Basis of presentation
Impact of strategic transactions
To aid the understanding of our results, we 
separately disclose the impact of strategic 
transactions classified as material notable 
items on the results of the Group and our 
global businesses. Material notable items are 
a subset of notable items and categorisation 
is dependent on the nature of each item in 
conjunction with the financial impact on the 
Group’s income statement. Strategic 
transactions classified as material notable 
items comprise the disposal of our retail 
banking operations in France, our banking 
business in Canada, the sale of our business 
in Argentina and the acquisition of SVB UK. 
The impacts quoted include the gains or 
losses on classification to held for sale or on 
acquisition and all other related notable items. 
They also include the distorting impact 
between the periods of the operating income 
statement results related to acquisitions and 
disposals that affect period-on-period 
comparisons. It is computed by including the 
operating income statement results of each 
business in any period for which there are no 
results in the comparative period. We 
consider the monthly impacts of distorting 
income statement results when calculating 
the impact of strategic transactions. See page 
102 for supplementary analysis of the impact 
of strategic transactions.
Constant currency performance
Constant currency performance is computed 
by adjusting reported results of comparative 
periods for the effects of foreign currency 
translation differences, which distort periodon-period comparisons.
We consider constant currency performance 
to provide useful information for investors by 
aligning internal and external reporting, and 
reflecting how management assesses periodon-period performance.
Notable items
We separately disclose ‘notable items‘, which 
are components of our income statement 
that management would consider as outside 
the normal course of business and generally 
non-recurring in nature. We now disclose 
‘profit before tax excluding notable items’ and 
‘revenue excluding notable items’. We have 
introduced these new measures due to the 
significant impact of notable items on the 
Group’s results. We consider profit before tax 
excluding notable items and revenue 
excluding notable items as useful information 
in understanding period-on-period 
performance.
Certain notable items are classified as 
‘material notable items’, which are a subset 
of notable items. Categorisation as a material 
notable item is dependent on the nature of 
each item in conjunction with the financial 
impact on the Group’s income statement.
The tables on pages 99 to 101 and pages 113 
to 118 detail the effects of notable items on 
each of our global business segments and 
legal entities during 2024, 2023 and 2022.
Management view of revenue on a 
constant currency basis
Our global business segment commentary 
includes tables that provide breakdowns of 
revenue on a constant currency basis by 
major product. These reflect the basis on 
which revenue performance of the 
businesses is assessed and managed.
Global Trade Solutions
During 2024, we renamed our Global Trade 
and Receivables Finance business as Global 
Trade Solutions (‘GTS’), to better reflect our 
broad suite of products and the focus we 
place on serving our clients globally.
Comparative periods
Unless otherwise stated, all performance 
commentary that follows compares our 
results in 2024 with those in 2023.
Reported results (vs 2023)
Reported profit
Reported profit before tax of $32.3bn was 
$2.0bn or 6% higher. This included a net 
$1.0bn favourable impact from notable items. 
In 2024, notable items included a gain of 
$4.8bn following the disposal of our banking 
business in Canada, and losses associated 
with the sale of our business in Argentina, 
comprising a $1.0bn loss on disposal, as well 
as the recycling of foreign currency reserve 
losses and other reserves of $5.2bn. In 2023, 
notable items included an impairment of 
$3.0bn on our associate, Bank of 
Communications Co., Limited (‘BoCom’), 
which followed the reassessment of our 
accounting value-in-use. They also included 
disposal losses of $1.0bn on Treasury 
repositioning and risk management and a 
$1.6bn gain recognised on the acquisition of 
Silicon Valley Bank UK Limited (‘SVB UK’). 
 For further details on our value-in-use 
assessment for associates, see page 88.
The increase in reported profit before tax also 
included revenue growth from Wealth 
products in WPB and in Equities and 
Securities Financing in GBM.
Reported operating expenses increased by 
$1.0bn, mainly due to higher spend and 
investment in technology and the impacts of 
inflation, partly offset by reductions related to 
our business disposals in Canada and France, 
and from a reduction in levies in the UK and 
the US. Target basis operating expenses rose 
by 5% compared with 2023, in line with our 
cost growth target. 
Reported profit after tax of $25.0bn was 
$0.4bn higher than in 2023. This included the 
impact of an increase in the Group’s effective 
tax rate, notably due to the impact of our 
business disposals in Canada and Argentina. 
Reported revenue
Reported revenue of $65.9bn was broadly 
stable. There was growth in revenue from 
higher customer activity in Wealth in WPB, 
and in Equities and Securities Financing in 
GBM. In addition, reported revenue in 2023 
included disposal losses of $1.0bn related to 
Treasury repositioning and risk management. 
These items were broadly offset by the net 
adverse impact of certain strategic 
transactions described above, as well as a 
$0.2bn loss on the early redemption of legacy 
securities, and a reduction from the results of 
the businesses that have now been disposed. 
NII of $32.7bn fell by $3.1bn, and included 
the adverse impact of foreign currency 
translation differences of $1.6bn and the 
impact from the early redemption of legacy 
securities of $0.2bn. The reduction included 
the effect of the disposal of our banking 
business in Canada. The fall in NII also 
reflected an increase of $2.7bn in funding 
costs associated with the redeployment of 
our commercial surplus into the trading book, 
where the related revenue is recognised in 
’net income on financial instruments held for 
trading or managed on a fair value basis’. 
These reductions were in part mitigated by 
higher NII in HSBC UK, including the benefit 
of our structural hedge. In Markets Treasury 
NII increased due to reinvestments in our 
portfolio at higher yields. Banking NII of 
$43.7bn fell by $0.4bn or 1%, as increased 
deployment of our commercial surplus to the 
trading book partly mitigated the reductions in 
NII. 
Revenue in 2024 was adversely affected by a 
$0.8bn impact of hyperinflationary accounting 
in Argentina, including the devaluation of the 
Argentinian peso, compared with a $1.4bn 
adverse impact in 2023.
Reported ECL
Reported ECL charges of $3.4bn were stable 
compared with 2023. This reflected 
reductions in CMB and GBM, offset by an 
increase in WPB.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
27
Strategic report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Reported results continued
2024
2023
2022
2024 vs 2023
of which strategic 
transactions
1
Reported results
$m
$m
$m
$m
%
$m
Net operating income before change in expected credit 
losses and other credit impairment charges (‘revenue’)
 
65,854 
66,058 
50,620 
(204) 
 
— 
(3,947) 
ECL
 
(3,414) 
(3,447) 
(3,584) 
33 
 
1 
72 
Net operating income
 
62,440 
62,611 
47,036 
(171) 
 
— 
(3,875) 
Total operating expenses
 
(33,043) 
(32,070) 
(32,701) 
(973) 
 
(3) 
1,100 
Operating profit
 
29,397 
30,541 
14,335 
(1,144) 
 
(4) 
(2,775) 
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures less 
impairment
 
2,912 
(193) 
2,723 
3,105 
>100 
— 
Profit before tax
 
32,309 
30,348 
17,058 
1,961 
 
6 
(2,775) 
Tax expense
 
(7,310) 
(5,789) 
(809) 
(1,521) 
 
(26) 
Profit after tax
 
24,999 
24,559 
16,249 
440 
 
2 
Revenue excluding notable items
 
67,434 
65,723 
54,222 
1,711 
 
3 
Profit before tax excluding notable items
 
34,122 
33,198 
23,560 
924 
 
3 
1 For details, see ‘Impact of strategic transactions‘ on page 102.
2024
2023
2022
Notable items 
$m
$m
$m
Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs
1
 
(1,343) 
1,298 
(2,737) 
Fair value movements on financial instruments
2
 
— 
14 
(618) 
Restructuring and other related costs
 
— 
— 
(247) 
Disposal losses on Markets Treasury repositioning
 
— 
(977) 
— 
Early redemption of legacy securities
 
(237) 
— 
— 
Currency translation on revenue notable items
 
— 
88 
(174) 
Operating expenses
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs
 
(199) 
(321) 
(18) 
Impairment of non-financial items
 
— 
— 
— 
Restructuring and other related costs
 
(34) 
136 
(2,882) 
Currency translation on operating expenses notable items
 
— 
— 
(62) 
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures less impairment
Impairment of interest in associate
 
— 
(3,000) 
— 
1 The amount in 2024 includes a $1.0bn loss on disposal and a $5.2bn loss on the recycling in foreign currency translation reserve losses and other reserves arising 
on sale of our business in Argentina. This was partly offset by a gain of $4.8bn on the sale of our banking business in Canada, inclusive of fair value gains on 
related hedging and recycling of related reserves. The amount in 2023 included a gain recognised in respect of the acquisition of SVB UK of $1.6bn. The amount in 
2022 included losses from classifying businesses as held for sale as part of a broader restructuring of our European business of which $2.4bn related to the sale of 
our retail banking operations in France.
2 Fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges in HSBC Holdings.
ECL charges in CMB were $1.8bn in 2024, and 
in GBM charges were $0.2bn. This included 
charges of $0.4bn in respect of commercial real 
estate in mainland China and of $0.1bn in the 
Hong Kong real estate sector. This compared 
with charges of $1.0bn and $0.1bn respectively 
in these sectors in 2023. In addition, ECL in 
2024 in CMB included a charge related to a 
single exposure in the UK, while charges in 
HSBC Bank UK reduced compared with 2023. In 
GBM, charges in 2024 also benefited from a 
release of stage 3 allowances in HSBC Bank plc 
related to a single exposure.
In WPB, ECL charges were $1.3bn. These 
primarily related to our legal entity in Mexico, 
reflecting growth in our unsecured lending 
portfolio and unemployment trends, and also in 
Hong Kong and the UK.
 For further details of the calculation of ECL, see 
pages 147 to 160.
Reported operating expenses
Reported operating expenses of $33.0bn were 
$1.0bn or 3% higher, including favourable 
foreign currency translation differences between 
the periods of $0.6bn. The increase reflected 
higher spend and investment in technology and 
inflationary impacts, while performance-related 
pay remained stable. Operating expenses were 
also adversely impacted by the non-recurrence 
of a $0.2bn reversal of historical asset 
impairments in 2023. 
These increases were partly offset by a 
favourable impact from the UK bank levy of 
$0.1bn, as 2023 included adjustments relating to 
prior years, and from the non-recurrence of a 
$0.2bn charge incurred in the US relating to the 
FDIC special assessment.
The number of employees expressed in full-time 
equivalent staff (‘FTE’) at 31 December 2024 
was 211,304, a decrease of 9,557 compared 
with 31 December 2023, primarily reflecting the 
completion of the sales of our banking business 
in Canada, our retail banking operations in 
France and our business in Argentina. The 
number of contractors at 31 December 2024 
was 4,226, a decrease of 450.
Reported share of profit in associates 
and joint ventures less impairment
Reported share of profit in associates and joint 
ventures less impairment of $2.9bn was $3.1bn 
higher than in 2023. This primarily reflected the 
non-recurrence of an impairment charge in 2023 
of $3.0bn relating to our investment in BoCom 
due to a reduction to the accounting value-in-use 
of the investment. In addition, there was an 
increase in the share of profit from Saudi Awwal 
Bank (‘SAB’).
Tax expense 
Tax in 2024 was a charge of $7.3bn, 
representing an effective tax rate of 22.6%, 
compared with 19.1% in 2023. The effective tax 
rate for 2024 was increased by 4.8 percentage 
points by the non-deductible loss on disposal of 
our business in Argentina and by 0.7 percentage 
points by the tax charge arising under the Global 
Minimum Tax rules, and reduced by 3.6 
percentage points by the non-taxable gain on 
disposal of our banking business in Canada. The 
effective tax rate for 2023 was increased by 2.3 
percentage points by the non-deductible 
impairment of investments in associates, and 
reduced by 1.6 percentage points by the release 
of provisions for uncertain tax positions and by 
1.5 percentage points by the non-taxable 
accounting gain arising on the acquisition of 
SVB UK.
Reported profit after tax in 2024 
$25.0bn
(2023: $24.6bn)
Strategic Report
28
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Constant currency results
2024
2023
2022
2024 vs 2023
of which strategic 
transactions
1
Results – on a constant currency basis 
$m
$m
$m
$m
%
$m
Revenue
 
65,854 
64,912 
49,587 
942 
 
1 
(3,890) 
ECL
 
(3,414) 
(3,259) 
(3,615) 
(155) 
 
(5) 
36 
Total operating expenses
 
(33,043) 
(31,494) 
(32,229) 
(1,549) 
 
(5) 
992 
Operating profit
 
29,397 
30,159 
13,743 
(762) 
 
(3) 
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures less impairment
 
2,912 
(256) 
2,559 
3,168 
>100 
— 
Profit before tax
 
32,309 
29,903 
16,302 
2,406 
 
8 
(2,862) 
Revenue excluding notable items
 
67,434 
64,489 
53,383 
2,945 
 
5 
Profit before tax excluding notable items
 
34,122 
32,680 
23,057 
1,442 
 
4 
1 For details, see ‘Impact of strategic transactions‘ on page 102.
Profit before tax of $32.3bn was $2.4bn 
higher than in 2023 on a constant currency 
basis. Constant currency profit before tax 
excluding notable items of $34.1bn was 
$1.4bn or 4% higher.
Revenue increased by $0.9bn or 1% on a 
constant currency basis, and included a 
$3.9bn net adverse impact from strategic 
transactions. The growth in revenue reflected 
the impact of higher customer activity in our 
Wealth products in WPB, and in Equities and 
Securities Financing in GBM. NII fell due to 
business disposals and a loss on the early 
redemption of legacy securities in 2024. 
The reduction also included higher funding 
costs associated with the redeployment of 
our commercial surplus into the trading book, 
where the related revenue is recognised in 
’net income on financial instruments held for 
trading or managed on a fair value basis’, 
partly offset by higher NII in HSBC UK, 
including the benefit of our structural hedge. 
On a constant currency basis, banking NII of 
$43.7bn increased by $1.5bn or 4%. 
ECL were $0.2bn or 5% higher on a constant 
currency basis. This included an increase in 
WPB, mainly in our legal entity in Mexico, 
from higher unsecured lending and 
unemployment trends, and from higher 
charges in our main legal entities in Hong 
Kong and the UK. This was partly offset by 
reductions in CMB and GBM including lower 
stage 3 charges, including charges relating to 
the commercial real estate sector in mainland 
China, and in CMB, lower charges in HSBC 
UK. The reduction in CMB was partly offset 
by a charge in 2024 related to a specific 
exposure in the UK.
Operating expenses were $1.5bn or 5% 
higher on a constant currency basis, primarily 
reflecting higher spend and investment in 
technology and inflationary impacts, partly 
offset by continued cost discipline. The 
favourable impacts from the completion of 
disposals in Canada and France were largely 
offset by the adverse impact of re-translating 
the results of hyperinflationary economies at 
constant currency. Target basis operating 
expenses rose by $1.6bn or 5% compared 
with 2023.
Share of profit in associates and joint 
ventures less impairment of $2.9bn was 
$3.2bn higher on a constant currency basis, 
and included the non-recurrence of a $3.0bn 
impairment of our investment in BoCom due 
to a revision to the accounting value-in-use of 
the investment. The increase also included a 
higher share of profit from SAB.
Balance sheet and capital
Balance sheet strength
Total assets of $3.0tn were $22bn lower than 
at 31 December 2023 on a reported basis, 
and included adverse effects of foreign 
currency translation differences of $66bn.
On a constant currency basis, total assets 
rose by $45bn, mainly from an increase in 
financial investments, and higher derivative 
and trading asset balances. This was partly 
offset by a reduction in assets held for sale, 
notably following the completion of our 
disposals in France, Canada and Argentina.
Reported loans and advances to customers 
fell by $8bn. On a constant currency basis, 
loans and advances increased by $14bn. The 
increase included lending balance growth in 
CMB, together with mortgage lending 
growth in WPB.
Reported customer accounts of $1.7tn 
increased by $43bn. On a constant currency 
basis, they grew by $75bn, with growth 
across all of our global businesses, mainly in 
Asia.
Loans and advances to customers as a 
percentage of customer accounts was 56.2%, 
compared with 58.2% at 31 December 2023.
Distributable reserves
The distributable reserves of HSBC Holdings at 
31 December 2024 were $28.3bn, a $2.6bn 
decrease since 31 December 2023, primarily 
driven by $27.4bn of dividends on ordinary 
shares, additional tier 1 coupon and share buyback payments, offset by $24.8bn in profits 
and other reserves movements generated in 
2024. Distributable reserves are sensitive to 
impairments of investments in subsidiaries to 
the extent they are not offset by the realisation 
of related reserves. Further details on HSBC 
Holdings’ intentions to increase distributable 
reserves in 2025 are provided in the Corporate 
Governance report on page 318. 
Capital position
We actively manage the Group’s capital 
position to support our business strategy and 
meet our regulatory requirements at all 
times, including under stress, while 
optimising our capital efficiency. To do this, 
we monitor our capital position using a 
number of measures. These include our 
capital ratios and the impact on our capital 
ratios as a result of stress.
Our CET1 capital ratio at 31 December 2024 
was 14.9%, up marginally compared with the 
prior year as capital generation and a reduction 
in RWAs through strategic transactions were 
offset by dividends, share buy-backs and 
organic balance sheet growth. In January 2025, 
the PRA announced the delay of Basel 3.1 
implementation to 1 January 2027 pending US 
developments. We expect that the impact on 
our CET1 ratio will be a modest benefit.
Liquidity position
We actively manage the Group’s liquidity and 
funding to support the business strategy and 
meet regulatory requirements at all times, 
including under stress. To do this, we monitor 
our position using a number of risk appetite 
measures, including the liquidity coverage 
ratio and the net stable funding ratio. During 
2024, the average high-quality liquid assets we 
held was $649.2bn. This excludes high-quality 
liquid assets in legal entities which are not 
transferable due to local restrictions. 
 For further details, see page 204.
Common equity tier 1 ratio (%)
14.9%
(2023: 14.8%) 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
29
Strategic report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Global businesses
During the year we served our customers through three global businesses. 
The following pages set out how each global business has performed. 
From 1 January 2025, we have simplified our structure as explained on page 5.
Wealth and Personal Banking
Our WPB business served 40 million customers globally, including 7.7 million who are international, from retail 
customers to ultra high net worth individuals and their families.
Contribution to Group profit before tax 
Calculation is based on profit before tax of our global 
businesses excluding Corporate Centre.
To meet our customers’ needs, WPB 
offered a full suite of products and 
services across transactional banking, 
lending and wealth. 
WPB continued to invest in our key strategic 
priorities of expanding our Wealth franchise in 
Asia, developing our transactional banking 
and lending capabilities, and addressing our 
customers’ international needs. 
Divisional highlights 
21%
Growth in wealth non-interest income 
compared with 2023.
Performance in 2024 reflected strong growth 
in Wealth, with double digit growth across 
Retail investment distribution, Private 
Banking and life insurance as well as growth 
in asset management. We also saw 
moderate balance sheet growth, and 
increases in our invested assets and wealth 
deposits. The results included growth in 
operating expenses, reflecting investment 
and inflationary impacts.
 12%
Growth in contractual service margin in 
insurance since 2023, up to $12.1bn.
Results – on a constant currency basis 
2024
2023
2022
2024 vs 2023
of which strategic 
transactions
2
$m
$m
$m
$m
%
$m
Net operating income
 
28,674 
26,848 
20,772 
1,826 
 
7 
(636) 
ECL
 
(1,335) 
(935) 
(1,160) 
(400) 
 
(43) 
(22) 
Operating expenses
 
(15,204) 
(14,352) 
(14,141) 
(852) 
 
(6) 
651 
Share of profit in associates and JVs
 
47 
64 
29 
(17) 
 
(27) 
— 
Profit before tax
 
12,182 
11,625 
5,500 
557 
 
5 
(7) 
RoTE
1 (%)
 
29.0 
28.5 
 
13.8 
1 RoTE (annualised) in 2023 and 2022 included a 0.3 and 4.7 percentage point adverse impact from the impairment losses relating to the sale of our retail banking 
operations in France respectively.
2 Impact of strategic transactions classified as material notable items. For details, see ‘Impact of strategic transactions‘ on page 102.
 International customers are those who bank in more than one market, those whose address is different from the market we bank them in and customers whose 
nationality, or country of birth for non-resident Indians and overseas Chinese, is different to the market we bank them in. Customers may be counted more than 
once when banked in multiple countries.
Our new Premier proposition
Kicking off in three markets – Hong Kong, Singapore and the UK – the new HSBC Premier 
proposition focuses on our strengths in wealth, health, travel and international services, 
combining the expertise of our Premier Relationship Managers with digital financial planning 
solutions to help affluent customers navigate important investment decisions. We partnered 
with top brands to provide an exclusive set of travel, dining, international property and health 
and well-being services via the HSBC Premier Mastercard credit card. Building on our core 
international capabilities, such as international credit history transfer and round the clock 24/7 
account servicing, the updated HSBC Premier enables us to support a new generation of 
customers, while also deepening relationships with millions of our existing clients. 
Strategic Report
30
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
$12.2bn
39%

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Management view of revenue 
2024
2023
2022
2024 vs 2023
of which strategic 
transactions
4
$m
$m
$m
$m
%
$m
Wealth
 
8,758 
7,446 
6,973 
1,312 
 
18 
(235) 
– investment distribution
 
2,925 
2,517 
2,469 
408 
 
16 
(167) 
– Global Private Banking
 
2,612 
2,268 
2,039 
344 
 
15 
— 
 net interest income
 
1,193 
1,167 
975 
26 
 
2 
— 
 non-interest income
 
1,419 
1,101 
1,064 
318 
 
29 
— 
– life insurance
 
1,840 
1,396 
1,337 
444 
 
32 
(10) 
– asset management
 
1,381 
1,265 
1,128 
116 
 
9 
(58) 
Personal Banking
 
19,352 
20,240 
15,884 
(888) 
 
(4) 
(669) 
– net interest income
 
17,980 
18,940 
14,597 
(960) 
 
(5) 
(578) 
– non-interest income
 
1,372 
1,300 
1,287 
72 
 
6 
(91) 
Other
1
 
564 
(838) 
(2,085) 
1,402 
>100 
268 
– of which: impairment (loss)/reversal relating to the sale of 
our retail banking operations in France
2
 
28 
4 
(2,374) 
24 
>100 
24 
Net operating income
3
 
28,674 
26,848 
20,772 
1,826 
 
7 
(636) 
1 ‘Other’ includes Markets Treasury, HSBC Holdings interest expense and hyperinflation. It also includes the distribution and manufacturing (where applicable) of 
retail and credit protection insurance, disposal gains and other non-product-specific income.
2 The amounts associated with the sale of our retail banking operations in France include all related impacts disclosed in notable items, which are presented across 
various lines in our consolidated income statement.
3 ’Net operating income’ means net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges (also referred to as ‘revenue’).
4 Impact of strategic transactions classified as material notable items. For details, see ‘Impact of strategic transactions’ on page 102.
2024
2023
2022
Notable items – on a reported basis
$m
$m
$m
Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs
 
28 
4 
(2,212) 
Restructuring and other related costs
 
— 
— 
98 
Disposal losses on Markets Treasury repositioning
 
— 
(391) 
— 
Currency translation on revenue notable items
 
— 
34 
(158) 
Operating expenses
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs
 
(3) 
(53) 
(7) 
Restructuring and other related costs
 
(10) 
20 
(357) 
Currency translation on operating expenses notable items
 
— 
— 
(3) 
Financial performance
Profit before tax of $12.2bn was $0.6bn higher 
than in 2023 on a constant currency basis. The 
growth reflected higher Wealth revenue, as 
we continued to execute on our strategy. This 
was partly offset by a $0.2bn reduction from 
the sale of our banking business in Canada, 
which completed in 1Q24. Net interest income 
(‘NII’) grew by 2% compared with 2023, while 
fee income increased by 12%. Operating 
expenses grew by $0.9bn and there was an 
increase in ECL of $0.4bn, both on a constant 
currency basis.
Revenue of $28.7bn was $1.8bn or 7% higher 
on a constant currency basis. Wealth 
performed strongly, up $1.3bn. This included 
double-digit percentage growth in life 
insurance, Global Private Banking and 
investment distribution, as well as growth in 
asset management. This was partly offset by a 
reduction in Personal Banking NII of $1.0bn, 
due to the impact of the disposals in France 
and Canada and margin compression, partly 
offset by balance sheet and non-NII growth. 
In Wealth, revenue of $8.8bn was up $1.3bn 
or 18%.
– Investment distribution revenue grew by 
$0.4bn, or 16%, driven by higher sales of 
mutual funds, structured products and 
bonds due to our continued investment in 
Wealth and improved market sentiment, 
including in our entities in Asia.
– Global Private Banking revenue was $0.3bn 
or 15% higher, primarily driven by a strong 
performance in brokerage and trading in our 
entities in Asia.
– Life insurance revenue was $0.4bn or 32% 
higher. The growth included an increase in 
earnings from contractual service margin 
(‘CSM’) release, largely due to continued 
growth in the CSM balance. The year-onyear increase in revenue also included the 
impact of corrections to historical valuation 
estimates recognised in 2023. Insurance 
manufacturing new business CSM of $2.5bn 
was 49% higher than in 2023, mainly in our 
legal entities in Hong Kong.
– Asset management revenue was $0.1bn or 
9% higher, driven by a 7% increase in 
assets under management due to inflows 
and positive market movements. This was 
partly offset by a reduction in revenue due to 
the sale of our banking business in Canada.
In Personal Banking, revenue of $19.4bn was 
down $0.9bn or 4%.
– Net interest income was $1.0bn or 5% 
lower due to the impact of the sales of our 
banking businesses in France and Canada 
and narrower margins. Compared with 2023, 
lending balances were broadly stable with 
growth mainly in mortgages in HSBC UK and 
our legal entity in the US. This was offset by 
the reclassification of the France retained 
loans to Corporate Centre. Unsecured lending 
balances increased, including in HSBC UK and 
our legal entities in Asia and Mexico. Deposit 
balances grew by $24bn, including in our legal 
entities in Asia and the UK.
Other revenue increased by $1.4bn, mainly 
due to a $1.1bn increase in revenue allocated 
from Markets Treasury, including from the 
non-recurrence of 2023 disposal losses on 
repositioning and risk management, the nonrecurrence of a loss on sale of our business in 
New Zealand in 2023 of $0.1bn and higher 
interest income earned on own capital. 
ECL were $1.3bn, an increase of $0.4bn 
compared with 2023 on a constant currency 
basis, reflecting higher charges in our legal 
entity in Mexico, mainly in our unsecured 
portfolio, due to portfolio growth and 
unemployment trends. In addition, we had 
higher charges in our legal entities in Hong 
Kong and the UK as a result of portfolio 
growth.
Operating expenses of $15.2bn were 6% 
higher on a constant currency basis, reflecting 
continued investments in Wealth in Asia, 
higher spend and investment in technology, 
higher performance-related pay and from the 
impact of higher inflation. These were partly 
offset by continued cost discipline and the 
impact of the disposals in France and Canada.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
31
Strategic report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Commercial Banking 
Our CMB business served around 1.2
1 million customers across 48 countries and territories, ranging from small 
enterprises to large companies operating globally.
Contribution to Group profit before tax 
Calculation is based on profit before tax of our global 
businesses excluding Corporate Centre.
CMB partnered with businesses around 
the world, supporting every stage of 
their growth, international ambitions 
and sustainability transitions. CMB 
delivered value to clients through our 
international network, financing 
strength, digital capabilities and our 
universal banking offering, including our 
global trade and payments solutions.
HSBC has been recognised as the World’s best 
Trade Finance Bank and the World’s best 
Payments and Treasury Bank (Euromoney 
Awards) and we continue to invest in 
capabilities to assist clients in fulfilling their 
business needs more efficiently. 
We have completed our first full year of 
HSBC Innovation Banking with global revenue 
now standing at $0.7bn, and over 1,200 new 
customers onboarded in 2024. 
Divisional highlights
10%
Increase in loans and advances to customers 
in Global Trade Solutions, compared with 
2023, on a constant currency basis.
CMB profit before tax compared with 2023 
was impacted by the non-recurrence of the 
gain on acquisition of SVB UK recognised in 
2023. Excluding this, there was a good 2024 
performance, with growth in revenue due to 
balance sheet growth, continued momentum 
in growing our multi-jurisdictional client base, 
and investment in our core transaction 
banking capabilities leading to higher fee 
income. Revenue also benefited from the 
growth in GBM collaboration income. The 
increase in operating expenses reflected the 
impact of hyperinflation in Argentina, 
increased technology spend and investment, 
incremental costs associated with HSBC 
Innovation Banking and inflationary pressures.
1 The number of customers reduced due to the 
sale of our banking business in Canada.
$25bn
CMB grew deposits by $25bn or 5% 
compared with 2023.
Results – on a constant currency basis 
2024
2023
2022
2024 vs 2023
of which strategic 
transactions
2
$m
$m
$m
$m
%
$m
Net operating income
 
21,580 
22,396 
16,207 
(816) 
 
(4) 
(2,228) 
ECL
 
(1,815) 
(2,006) 
(1,868) 
191 
 
10 
69 
Operating expenses
 
(7,906) 
(7,234) 
(6,810) 
(672) 
 
(9) 
255 
Share of profit/(loss) in associates and JVs
 
1 
(1) 
1 
2 
>100 
— 
Profit before tax
 
11,860 
13,155 
7,530 
(1,295) 
 
(10) 
(1,904) 
RoTE
1 (%)
 
20.0 
 
23.4 
 
13.7 
1 RoTE in 2023 included a 3.1 percentage point favourable impact from the gain recognised on the acquisition of SVB UK. 
2 Impact of strategic transactions classified as material notable items. For details, see ‘Impact of strategic transactions‘ on page 102.
An international partner for a global travel retailer
Our 15-year partnership with Swiss-based Avolta reflects a deep collaboration that has 
supported Avolta’s international expansion. During the pandemic, we worked closely with 
Avolta to help them navigate the travel retail sector's challenges. This year, beyond 
transaction banking and credit solutions, we served as lead global coordinator and physical 
bookrunner on a €500m bond, reaffirming our commitment to Avolta’s strategic goals. As an 
innovative and rapidly-evolving company, Avolta needs a banking partner that matches their 
pace. Utilising our international network and expertise in key markets across the US, Europe 
and Asia, we have helped unlock global opportunities for Avolta and their customers, fostering 
a robust partnership centred on growth and innovation.
Strategic Report
32
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
$11.9bn
38%

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Management view of revenue 
2024
2023
2022
2024 vs 2023
of which strategic 
transactions
4
$m
$m
$m
$m
%
$m
Global Trade Solutions
 
1,992 
1,969 
2,045 
23 
 
1 
(39) 
Credit and Lending 
 
5,183 
5,239 
5,728 
(56) 
 
(1) 
(281) 
Global Payments Solutions
 
11,880 
12,125 
6,911 
(245) 
 
(2) 
(225) 
Markets products, Insurance and Investments and Other
1
 
2,525 
3,063 
1,523 
(538) 
 
(18) 
(1,683) 
– of which: share of revenue for Markets and Securities Services 
and Banking products
 
1,382 
1,295 
1,181 
87 
 
7 
– of which: gain on the acquisition of Silicon Valley Bank UK Limited
 
— 
1,659 
— 
(1,659) 
 
(100) 
(1,659) 
Net operating income
2
 
21,580 
22,396 
16,207 
(816) 
 
(4) 
(2,228) 
– of which: transaction banking
3
 
14,867 
15,077 
9,853 
1 Includes a gain on the acquisition of SVB UK and CMB‘s share of revenue from the sale of Markets and Securities Services and Banking products to CMB 
customers. GBM‘s share of revenue from the sale of these products to CMB customers is included within the corresponding lines of the GBM management view 
of revenue. Also includes allocated revenue from Markets Treasury, HSBC Holdings interest expense and hyperinflation.
2 ’Net operating income’ means net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges (also referred to as ‘revenue’).
3 Transaction banking comprises Global Trade Solutions, Global Payments Solutions and CMB’s share of Global Foreign Exchange (shown within ‘share of revenue 
for Markets and Securities Services and Banking products’).
4 Impact of strategic transactions classified as material notable items. For details, see ‘Impact of strategic transactions‘ on page 102.
2024
2023
2022
Notable items – on a reported basis
$m
$m
$m
Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs
 
— 
1,591 
— 
Restructuring and other related costs
 
— 
— 
(16) 
Disposal losses on Markets Treasury repositioning
 
— 
(316) 
— 
Currency translation on revenue notable items
 
— 
65 
6 
Operating expenses
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs
 
(2) 
(55) 
— 
Restructuring and other related costs
 
2 
32 
(266) 
Currency translation on operating expenses notable items
 
— 
— 
(7) 
Financial performance 
Profit before tax of $11.9bn was $1.3bn 
lower than in 2023 on a constant currency 
basis. This was mainly due to a reduction in 
revenue following the non-recurrence of a 
$1.7bn gain recognised in 2023 on the 
acquisition of SVB UK, the impact of the 
disposal of our banking business in Canada in 
2024, as well as higher operating expenses. 
The reduction in profit before tax was partly 
offset by balance-sheet-driven revenue 
growth, excluding the disposal of our banking 
business in Canada, higher revenue allocated 
from Markets Treasury, transaction banking 
fee growth and lower ECLs. 
Revenue of $21.6bn was $0.8bn or 4% lower 
on a constant currency basis. This was 
primarily due to the non-recurrence of the 
gain on the acquisition of SVB UK in 2023, as 
mentioned above. It also included an adverse 
impact of $0.6bn from strategic transactions, 
notably in relation to the disposal of our 
banking business in Canada. These were 
partly offset by an increase in NII due to the 
hyperinflationary impacts in Argentina and 
higher allocated revenue from Markets 
Treasury.
– In GTS, revenue was up $23m or 1%, 
mainly due to growth in fee income from 
guarantees, higher balances and improved 
margins. This was partly offset by the 
impact of the disposal of our banking 
business in Canada.
– In Credit and Lending, revenue decreased 
by $0.1bn or 1% due to the impact of the 
disposal of our banking business in Canada, 
partly offset by higher income in IVB.
– In GPS, revenue was down $0.2bn or 2%, 
reflecting the impact of the disposal of our 
banking business in Canada, and a 
decrease in our main legal entities in Asia 
and Europe from lower margins, reflecting 
a change in the product mix. This was 
partly offset by growth in fee income 
reflecting business initiatives and 
transaction volumes. There was also higher 
revenue in HSBC UK due to higher margins 
and in our legal entity in Argentina due to 
hyperinflationary impacts.
– In GBM products, Insurance and 
Investments, and Other, revenue 
decreased by $0.5bn, largely due to the 
non-recurrence of the $1.7bn gain 
recognised in 2023 on the acquisition of 
SVB UK. This adverse impact was partly 
offset by higher allocated revenue from 
Markets Treasury, including from the nonrecurrence of 2023 disposal losses on 
repositioning and risk management and 
interest income on own capital. There was 
also higher GBM collaboration revenue, 
reflecting growth in Global Markets and 
Capital Financing products, notably in our 
key entities in Hong Kong, the UK and in 
Europe.
ECL charges of $1.8bn were $0.2bn lower on 
a constant currency basis. ECLs in 2024 
reflected lower charges in our main legal 
entity in Asia, reflecting a reduction in ECL in 
the commercial real estate sector in mainland 
China, and in HSBC UK. These reductions 
were partly offset by new stage 3 charges 
related to a single customer in the UK, and in 
our main legal entity in the Middle East.
Operating expenses of $7.9bn were $0.7bn 
or 9% higher on a constant currency basis. 
The increase reflected hyperinflationary 
impacts in Argentina, incremental costs in 
IVB following the acquisition of SVB UK, 
higher spend and investment in technology, 
and inflationary impacts. These increases 
were in part mitigated by continued cost 
discipline and lower costs following the 
disposal of our banking business in Canada.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
33
Strategic report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Global Banking and Markets
Our GBM business supported multinational corporates, financial institutions and institutional clients, as well as 
public sector and government bodies. 
Contribution to Group profit before tax 
Calculation is based on profit before tax of our global 
businesses excluding Corporate Centre.
GBM is a leading provider of transaction 
banking, financing and risk 
management solutions to our clients. 
Our global network with expertise, 
particularly in Asia and the Middle East, 
provides a differentiated service to our 
clients’ international financial 
requirements.
Divisional highlights
13.0%
Return on average tangible equity, up 1.6 
percentage points compared with 2023.
GBM delivered a strong performance in 2024, 
achieving a RoTE of 13.0%. On a constant 
currency basis, we grew revenue by 11%, 
while costs grew by 4% as we continued to 
invest in technology to support future 
revenue growth, and from the impact of 
inflation. We also had a reduction in ECL 
compared with 2023.
36%
Increase in Securities Financing revenue 
compared with 2023, primarily from new 
client onboarding in prime finance.
Results – on a constant currency basis 
2024
2023
2022
2024 vs 2023
of which strategic 
transactions
1
$m
$m
$m
$m
%
$m
Net operating income
 
17,529 
15,771 
14,542 
1,758 
 
11 
(49) 
ECL
 
(235) 
(317) 
(578) 
82 
 
26 
(11) 
Operating expenses
 
(10,231) 
(9,872) 
(9,403) 
(359) 
 
(4) 
59 
Share of profit/(loss) in associates and JVs
 
— 
— 
(2) 
— 
 
— 
— 
Profit before tax
 
7,063 
5,582 
4,559 
1,481 
 
27 
(1) 
RoTE (%)
 
13.0 
 
11.4 
 
9.8 
1 Impact of strategic transactions classified as material notable items. For details, see ‘Impact of strategic transactions‘ on page 102.
India‘s biggest-ever IPO listing 
In October 2024, we led the $3.3bn initial public offering (‘IPO’) of Hyundai Motor India 
Limited, India’s largest ever IPO and the second largest globally in 2024 at the time of the 
transaction.
Acting as joint book-running lead manager, we supported the company throughout the 
transaction. The strength of our international network in connecting clients to investors across 
markets, helped the company to attract significant demand from both domestic and global 
investors. The transaction, also the largest auto IPO since 2022, represented Hyundai’s largest 
stock market listing outside of South Korea, demonstrating the depth and evolution of India’s 
capital markets-raising potential from the perspective of global corporates and investors. 
Strategic Report
34
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
$7.1bn
23%

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Management view of revenue 
2024
2023
2022
2024 vs 2023
of which strategic 
transactions
6
$m
$m
$m
$m
%
$m
Markets and Securities Services
 
9,652 
8,806 
8,815 
846 
10 
(63) 
– Securities Services
 
2,280 
2,305 
1,994 
(25) 
(1) 
(3) 
– Global Debt Markets
 
968 
827 
698 
141 
17 
(8) 
– Global Foreign Exchange
 
3,972 
4,030 
4,088 
(58) 
(1) 
(49) 
– Equities
 
891 
552 
1,015 
339 
61 
(1) 
– Securities Financing
 
1,523 
1,120 
924 
403 
36 
(5) 
– Credit and funding valuation adjustments
 
18 
(28) 
96 
46 
>100 
3 
Banking
 
8,656 
8,460 
6,690 
196 
2 
(125) 
– Global Trade Solutions
 
690 
658 
670 
32 
5 
(13) 
– Global Payments Solutions
 
4,497 
4,427 
2,861 
70 
2 
(72) 
– Credit and Lending
 
1,820 
1,967 
2,229 
(147) 
(7) 
(15) 
– Investment Banking
1
 
1,084 
1,040 
737 
44 
4 
(9) 
– Other
2
 
565 
368 
193 
197 
54 
(16) 
GBM Other
 
(779) 
(1,495) 
(963) 
716 
48 
139 
– Principal Investments
 
24 
(5) 
57 
29 
>100 
— 
– Other
3
 
(803) 
(1,490) 
(1,020) 
687 
46 
139 
Net operating income
4
 
17,529 
15,771 
14,542 
1,758 
11 
(49) 
– of which: transaction banking
5
 
11,439 
11,420 
9,613 
19 
—
1 From 1 January 2024, we renamed ‘Capital Markets and Advisory‘ as ‘Investment Banking‘ to better reflect our purpose and offering.
2 Includes portfolio management, earnings on capital and other capital allocations on all Banking products.
3 Includes notional tax credits and Markets Treasury, HSBC Holdings interest expense and hyperinflation.
4 ‘Net operating income’ means net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges (also referred to as ‘revenue’).
5 Transaction banking comprises Securities Services, Global Foreign Exchange (net of revenue shared with CMB), GTS and GPS.
6 Impact of strategic transactions classified as material notable items. For details, see ‘Impact of strategic transactions‘ on page 102.
2024
2023
2022
Notable items – on a reported basis
$m
$m
$m
Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs
 
(14) 
— 
— 
Restructuring and other related costs
 
— 
— 
(184) 
Disposal losses on Markets Treasury repositioning
 
— 
(270) 
— 
Currency translation on revenue notable items
 
— 
(2) 
4 
Operating expenses
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs
 
(2) 
3 
— 
Restructuring and other related costs
 
(1) 
21 
(252) 
Currency translation on operating expenses notable items
 
— 
— 
(8) 
Financial performance
Profit before tax of $7.1bn was $1.5bn or 
27% higher than in 2023 on a constant 
currency basis. This was driven by an 
increase in revenue of $1.8bn or 11%on a 
constant currency basis, including from strong 
performances in Securities Financing, 
Equities and Global Debt Markets. In addition, 
ECL charges decreased compared with 2023, 
while operating expenses increased by 
$0.4bn on a constant currency basis.
Revenue of $17.5bn was $1.8bn or 11% 
higher on a constant currency basis.
In Markets and Securities Services (‘MSS‘), 
revenue increased by $0.8bn or 10% driven 
by prime finance, fixed income and equity 
derivatives.
– In Securities Services, revenue decreased 
by $25m or 1% from divestments within 
our fund administration business and from 
lower NII due to reduced rates impacting 
margins.
– In Global Debt Markets, revenue rose by 
$0.1bn or 17%, from higher client demand 
for financing products and increased volumes 
primarily from emerging markets credit.
– In Global Foreign Exchange, revenue fell by 
$0.1bn or 1%, as client activity remained 
resilient given the market environment. 
– In Equities, revenue increased by $0.3bn or 
61% amid improved market sentiment, 
which drove strong client demand for 
wealth products, as well as higher levels of 
volatility in 2H24.
– In Securities Financing, revenue rose by 
$0.4bn or 36%, primarily driven by new 
client onboarding in prime finance and 
robust institutional financing demand. 
In Banking, revenue increased by $0.2bn or 
2%.
– In GPS, revenue increased by $0.1bn or 
2%, driven by higher average balances and 
fee performance resulting from business 
initiatives, repricing and transaction growth.
– In Investment Banking, which includes 
Issuer Services, revenue increased by 
$44m or 4%, due to higher advisory and 
financing activity, supported by the 
recovery in global capital markets. 
– In Credit and Lending, revenue decreased 
by $0.1bn or 7% reflecting ongoing muted 
client demand.
– In Banking Other, revenue increased by 
$0.2bn or 54% due to hedging activities 
and higher allocated earnings on capital 
held in the business.
In GBM Other, revenue increased by $0.7bn 
or 48%, driven by higher allocated revenue 
from Markets Treasury, including from the nonrecurrence of 2023 disposal losses on 
repositioning and risk management, and lower 
HSBC Holdings interest expense. 
ECL of $0.2bn decreased by $0.1bn on a 
constant currency basis, mainly as the 2024 
period included a release related to a single 
exposure.
Operating expenses of $10.2bn increased by 
$0.4bn or 4% on a constant currency basis, 
due to the impact of inflation and higher 
spend and investment in technology, partly 
mitigated by continued cost discipline.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
35
Strategic report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Corporate Centre
The results of Corporate Centre primarily comprise the financial impact of certain acquisitions and disposals and 
the share of profit from our interests in our associates and joint ventures and related impairments. It also includes 
Central Treasury, stewardship costs and consolidation adjustments.
Corporate Centre performance in 2024 primarily 
reflected the financial impact of certain 
acquisitions and disposals, including the gain on 
the sale of our banking business in Canada and 
losses on the disposal of our business in 
Argentina, including foreign currency and other 
reserve losses. In 2023, performance included 
the recognition of an impairment in our 
investment in our associate BoCom.
Financial performance
Profit before tax of $1.2bn was $1.7bn higher 
than in 2023 on a constant currency basis. The 
increase included the impact of the nonrecurrence of an impairment charge of $3.0bn 
in 2023 relating to our investment in BoCom.
Revenue of $1.9bn was $1.8bn lower on a 
constant currency basis, primarily due to the 
impact of notable items. 
In 2024, these included a loss on disposal of 
$1.0bn, as well as foreign currency and other 
reserve losses of $5.2bn, following the 
disposal of our business in Argentina. They also 
included a loss of $0.1bn related to the 
recycling of reserves following the completion 
of the sale of our business in Russia, and a 
$0.2bn loss on the early redemption of legacy 
securities. These were partly offset by a 
$4.8bn gain on the sale of our banking 
business in Canada, inclusive of fair value gains 
on related hedging and recycling of related 
reserves. 
In 2023, notable items included fair value losses 
of $0.3bn relating to the hedging of the 
proceeds of the sale of our business in Canada. 
The reduction in revenue also included adverse 
fair value movements on financial instruments 
in Central Treasury and structural hedges, a 
reduction following the transfer of the retained 
French retail lending portfolio from WPB, and 
fair valuation losses on legacy portfolios. This 
was partly offset by fair value gains on hedging 
related to our retained French retail lending 
portfolio. 
Operating expenses decreased by $0.3bn on a 
constant currency basis. This included a lower 
impact from levies, including in relation to the 
FDIC special assessment and the UK bank levy. 
Share of profit from associates and joint 
ventures of $2.9bn increased by $3.2bn on a 
constant currency basis, primarily reflecting the 
non-recurrence of an impairment charge of 
$3.0bn in 2023 relating to our investment in 
BoCom and an increase in share of profit from 
SAB.
Results – on a constant currency basis
2024
2023
2022
2024 vs 2023
of which strategic 
transactions
1
$m
$m
$m
$m
%
$m
Net operating income
 
(1,929) 
(103) 
(1,934) 
(1,826) 
>(100) 
(977) 
ECL
 
(29) 
(1) 
(9) 
(28) 
>(100) 
— 
Operating expenses
 
298 
(36) 
(1,875) 
334 
>100 
27 
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures less impairment
 
2,864 
(319) 
2,531 
3,183 
>100 
— 
– of which: impairment loss relating to our investment in BoCom
 
— 
(3,017) 
— 
3,017 
>100 
— 
Profit/(loss) before tax
 
1,204 
(459) 
(1,287) 
1,663 
>100 
(950) 
RoTE (annualised) (%)
 
0.7 
 
(1.0) 
 
2.8 
1 Impact of strategic transactions classified as material notable items. For details, see ‘Impact of strategic transactions‘ on page 102.
Management view of revenue 
2024
2023
2022
2024 vs 2023
of which strategic 
transactions
6
$m
$m
$m
$m
%
$m
Central Treasury
1
 
(49) 
99 
(743) 
(148) 
>(100) 
— 
Legacy portfolios
 
(50) 
3 
(181) 
(53) 
>(100) 
— 
Other
2,3
 
(1,830) 
(205) 
(1,010) 
(1,625) 
>(100) 
(977) 
– of which: gain on the sale of banking business in Canada 
and associated hedges
4
 
4,795 
(275) 
— 
5,070 
>100 
5,070 
– of which: loss on the sale of business in Argentina
 
(1,011) 
— 
— 
(1,011) 
>(100) 
(1,011) 
– of which: recycling of foreign currency translation reserve 
losses and other reserves on sale of business in Argentina
 
(5,166) 
— 
— 
(5,166) 
>(100) 
(5,166) 
Net operating income
5
 
(1,929) 
(103) 
(1,934) 
(1,826) 
>(100) 
(977) 
1 
Central Treasury comprises valuation differences on issued long-term debt and associated swaps and fair value movements on financial instruments.
2 Other comprises gains and losses on certain transactions, funding charges on property and technology assets, the results of the retained France retail loan portfolio, 
revaluation gains and losses on investment properties and property disposals, consolidation adjustments and other revenue items not allocated to global businesses.
3 Revenue from Markets Treasury, HSBC Holdings net interest expense and hyperinflation are allocated out to the global businesses, to align them better with their 
revenue and expense. The total Markets Treasury revenue component of this allocation for 2024 was $1,569m (2023: $(339)m; 2022: $1,377m).
4 Includes fair value gains/(losses) on the foreign exchange hedging of the proceeds of the sale and the recycling of related reserves.
5 ’Net operating income’ means net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges (also referred to as ‘revenue’).
6 Impact of strategic transactions classified as material notable items. For details, see ‘Impact of strategic transactions‘ on page 102.
2024
2023
2022
Notable items – on a reported basis
$m
$m
$m
Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs
 
(1,357) 
(297) 
(525) 
Fair value movements on financial instruments
 
— 
14 
(618) 
Restructuring and other related costs
 
— 
— 
(145) 
Early redemption of legacy securities
 
(237) 
— 
— 
Currency translation on revenue notable items
 
— 
(9) 
(26) 
Operating expenses
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs
 
(192) 
(216) 
(11) 
Restructuring and other related costs
 
(25) 
63 
(2,007) 
Currency translation on operating expenses notable items
 
— 
— 
(46) 
Impairment of interest in associate
 
— 
(3,000) 
— 
Currency translation on associate notable items
 
(17) 
Strategic Report
36
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Risk overview
Active risk management helps us to achieve our strategy, 
serve our customers and communities and grow our 
business safely.
Managing risk 
HSBC’s operations are subject to changes in 
the economy, financial conditions and 
geopolitical developments that could have a 
material impact on the Group’s operations and 
financial risks. These factors are a significant 
source of uncertainty that we monitor and 
review continuously. 
Despite political and economic uncertainties, 
global economic growth was resilient in 2024. 
This was led by strong growth in the US and a 
mild recovery in the EU, while key emerging 
markets were supported by monetary policy 
easing. In the US, performance was supported 
by household consumption and government 
spending. In mainland China activity by sector 
has been uneven, but fiscal and monetary 
support ensured that the official economic 
growth target was still met. UK growth 
remained low despite a fall in inflation and 
lower interest rates, as consumers continued to 
prioritise saving. 
Continued moderate growth is expected in 
2025, but the trajectory of US economic and 
trade policies in the aftermath of the US 
election, and geopolitical risks such as the 
ongoing Russia-Ukraine war and conflict in 
the Middle East, remain key sources of 
forecast uncertainty.
Inflation and high interest rates remain key 
considerations for policymakers. In the US and 
Europe, headline inflation rates trended 
downwards towards central bank target ranges, 
despite high and persistent services price 
increases. Disinflation enabled the US Federal 
Reserve and the ECB to cut their policy rates by 
100bps and 75bps respectively, and the Bank of 
England by 50bps in 2024.
Further cuts in interest rates are expected in 
the US, although the resilience of the 
economy and the perceived supply chain and 
inflation risks attached to new and 
prospective US tariff policies, have led 
markets to pare back their expectations for 
rate cuts in 2025. In the Eurozone, interest 
rates are expected to be cut in order to 
support growth. Markets also expect the 
Bank of England to continue to reduce the 
bank rate throughout 2025. In mainland 
China, authorities have reduced benchmark 
policy interest rates to support private sector 
borrowing as demand for loans has 
weakened. Further fiscal and monetary 
easing is expected to support local 
consumption and offset some of the impact 
of US tariffs.
Fiscal policy, public deficits and indebtedness 
influence our risk profile. Public spending as a 
proportion of GDP is likely to remain high for 
most key economies. Against the backdrop of 
higher global interest rates, a high level of 
public debt issuance, and a strong US dollar, 
borrowing costs for certain countries could 
increase further. This could adversely impact 
the fiscal capacity and debt sustainability of 
highly-indebted sovereign issuers.
Additional sanctions on Iran were imposed in 
2024 in response to Iran’s activities and the 
increase in tensions between Israel and Iran. 
The sanctions and trade restrictions imposed 
by the US, the UK, and the EU, as well as 
other countries, as a result of the RussiaUkraine war, remain complex, far-reaching 
and evolving. The US has expanded the reach 
of its secondary sanctions regime, which 
includes broad discretion to impose severe 
sanctions on non-US banks. The imposition of 
such sanctions against any non-US HSBC 
entity could result in significant adverse 
commercial, operational and reputational 
consequences for HSBC. In response to such 
sanctions and trade restrictions, as well as 
asset flight, Russia has implemented certain 
countermeasures, including the expropriation 
of certain foreign assets.
Strategic competition with China has the 
potential to impact global supply chains which 
may in turn impact the Group’s operations. 
The US, the UK, the EU and other countries 
have imposed various sanctions and trade 
restrictions on Chinese individuals and 
companies. China has also imposed its own 
sanctions, trade restrictions and other 
measures against certain countries, 
businesses and individuals. This has resulted 
in efforts to de-risk certain sectors with the 
reshoring of manufacturing activities. 
Further sanctions or counter-sanctions may 
adversely affect the Group, its customers and 
various markets. 
Political changes may also have implications 
for policy and regulations. Newly elected 
governments in several key markets have 
committed to a shift in domestic and foreign 
policy priorities. The US administration 
supports sweeping economic, foreign and 
trade policy changes that, if enacted, are 
expected to have geopolitical and 
macroeconomic implications, including an 
uncertain impact on growth and inflation. 
HSBC continues to monitor these policy 
changes and assess their implications for 
economic conditions in our key markets.
Challenging conditions persist in the real 
estate sector in several of our major markets. 
The Hong Kong commercial real estate 
market has seen prices fall amid low 
transaction volumes and a high interest rate 
environment. Despite an improvement in 
sentiment associated with supportive policy 
measures and recent US interest rate cuts, 
commercial real estate market demand has 
remained weak. Prices also fell in the Hong 
Kong residential market during 2024 but 
sentiment and transaction volumes started to 
improve in the fourth quarter, supported by 
more favourable government measures and 
improved affordability as prices and interest 
rates fell. Stabilisation of the real estate market 
could be dependent on a further lowering of 
interest rates to revive demand for property 
both in the domestic market and from 
mainland China. Higher interest rates, a 
stronger US dollar and weak sentiment in 
mainland China remain the key risks to 
recovery. 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
37
Key risk appetite metrics
Component
Measure
Risk 
appetite
2024
Capital
CET1 ratio – end point basis
≥13.5%
14.9%
Change in expected 
credit losses and 
other credit 
impairment charges
Change in expected credit losses and other credit 
impairment charges as a % of advances: Retail (WPB)
≤0.50%
0.27%
Change in expected credit losses and other credit 
impairment charges as a % of advances: Wholesale 
(GBM, CMB)
≤0.45%
0.37%
Strategic report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Managing risk continued
In mainland China an excess of inventory and 
low confidence have resulted in the fall in 
both commercial and residential real estate 
prices. A recovery remains contingent on 
reform and broader economy-wide stimulus 
measures. We continue to closely monitor 
market conditions and take steps to 
proactively manage our commercial real 
estate portfolios.
In the fourth quarter of 2024 management 
adjustments to ECL were applied to reflect 
sector or portfolio risks that are not fully 
captured by our models.
We continue to assess the impact of Basel 
3.1 standards on our capital, including the 
release of more beneficial PRA near-final 
rules, developments in the US and the 
associated implementation challenges.
We monitor, and seek to manage, the 
potential implications of all the above 
developments on our customers and our 
business. While the financial performance of 
our operations varied by geography, our 
balance sheet and liquidity remained strong.
 For further details of our Central and other 
scenarios, see ‘Measurement uncertainty and 
sensitivity analysis of ECL estimates’ on page 
147.
Our risk appetite
Our risk appetite sets our approach to 
monitoring and managing our risk exposure. It 
defines our desired forward-looking risk 
profile and informs the strategic and financial 
planning process. It provides a baseline to 
guide strategic decision making by helping 
planned business activities to deliver an 
appropriate balance of return for the risk 
assumed, while remaining within acceptable 
risk levels. Risk appetite supports senior 
management in allocating financial resources 
optimally to finance sustainable growth and 
manage risk exposures. 
At 31 December 2024 our CET1 ratio and 
ECL charges were within their defined risk 
appetite thresholds. Our CET1 capital ratio at 
31 December 2024 was 14.9%, up marginally 
compared with the prior year as capital 
generation and a reduction in RWAs through 
strategic transactions were offset by 
dividends, share buy-backs and organic 
balance sheet growth. For further details of 
the key drivers of the overall CET1 ratio, see 
‘Own funds’ on page 205. Wholesale ECL 
charges during the year continued to reflect 
stress in the mainland China and Hong Kong 
commercial real estate sectors however, 
Wholesale and Retail ECL charges remained 
within appetite.
Stress tests
We regularly conduct stress tests to assess 
the resilience of our balance sheet and our 
capital adequacy, as well as to provide 
actionable insights into how key elements of 
our portfolios may behave during a crisis. We 
use the outcomes to calibrate our risk 
appetite to inform our strategic and financial 
plans, helping to improve the quality of 
management’s decision making. The results 
from the stress tests also drive recovery and 
resolution planning to help enhance the 
Group’s financial stability under various 
severe macroeconomic or idiosyncratic 
scenarios. The selection of stress scenarios is 
based upon the identification and assessment 
of our top and emerging risks and our risk 
appetite. 
The Prudential Regulation Authority (‘PRA’) 
cancelled the 2024 Annual Cyclical Scenario 
stress testing exercise and instead 
commenced a Desk Based Stress Test 
exercise, which used PRA models and their 
in-house expertise to test the resilience of 
the UK banking system against more than 
one adverse macroeconomic scenario. HSBC 
provided 2023 year-end data to support this. 
The results of this exercise across firms were 
published in aggregate only, within the 
Financial Stability Report issued in the fourth 
quarter of 2024. The PRA announced an 
updated Stress Testing Framework and 
intends to return to a concurrent exercise in 
2025, involving the submission of stressed 
projections. Further details will be provided 
by the PRA during 2025.
During 2024, the Group-wide internal stress 
test was completed and assessed the impact 
of two contrasting scenarios envisioning 
severe macroeconomic conditions over a fiveyear period. These scenarios reflected the 
uncertain inflation and interest rate 
environment, heightened geopolitical 
tensions, banking sector challenges, and 
global economic stress. The outcomes 
demonstrated that the Group has sufficient 
capital to withstand severe but plausible 
stress conditions. Additionally, the 
conclusions drawn from this exercise will also 
be included in the Group Internal Capital 
Adequacy Assessment Process. 
Climate risk
Climate risk relates to the financial and nonfinancial impacts that may arise as a 
consequence of climate change and the 
move to a net zero economy. Climate risk can 
impact us either directly or through our 
relationships with our clients. These include 
the potential risks arising as a result of our 
net zero ambition, which could lead to 
reputational concerns, and potential legal and/
or regulatory enforcement action if we are 
perceived to mislead stakeholders on our 
business activities or if we fail to achieve our 
stated net zero ambition.
We seek to manage climate risk across all our 
businesses in line with our Group-wide risk 
management framework and continue to 
incorporate climate considerations within our 
traditional risk types. 
 For further details of our approach to climate risk 
management, see ‘Climate risk‘ on page 219.
 For further details of our TCFD disclosures, see 
the ‘ESG review‘ on page 444.
 
Climate stress tests
Scenario analysis supports our strategy by 
assessing our potential exposures to climate 
risks and vulnerabilities under a range of 
climate scenarios. Scenario analysis helps to 
build our awareness of climate change, 
understand plausible impacts to our strategy, 
plan for the future and meet our growing 
regulatory requirements. 
In 2024, we enhanced our internal climate 
scenario analysis exercise by focusing our 
efforts on generating more granular insights 
for key sectors and regions to support core 
decision-making processes. We also 
continued to embed climate considerations 
into core processes across the Group and to 
respond to our regulatory requirements. 
Additionally, we produced several climate 
stress tests for regulators around the world, 
including the Hong Kong Monetary Authority.
 For further details of our approach to climate risk 
stress testing, see ‘Insights from scenario 
analysis’ on page 223.
Our operations
We remain committed to investing in the 
reliability and resilience of our technology 
systems and critical services. We assess our 
third parties to help ensure they deliver the 
standard of services we require to provide 
resilient services to our customers. We do so 
to help protect our customers, affiliates and 
counterparties, and minimise any disruption 
to our services. In our approach to defending 
against these threats, we invest in business 
and technical controls to help us prevent, 
detect, manage and recover from issues in a 
timely manner within our risk appetite.
We are working to balance the opportunity 
artificial intelligence (‘AI’) presents to 
accelerate delivery of our strategy with the 
need for appropriate controls to be in place to 
mitigate the associated risks. HSBC is 
committed to using AI responsibly. HSBC’s 
Principles for the Ethical Use of Data and AI 
are available at www.hsbc.com/ai. We 
continue to refine and embed governance 
and controls into our risk management 
processes to help meet the Group’s needs 
and increasing regulatory expectations for 
when AI is both developed internally and 
enabled through third parties.
We continue to focus on improving the 
quality and timeliness of the data used to 
inform management decisions, and are 
progressing with the implementation of our 
strategic and regulatory change initiatives to 
help deliver the right outcomes for our 
customers, people, investors and 
communities. 
 For further details of our risk management 
framework and risks associated with our banking 
and insurance manufacturing operations, see 
pages 136 and 231, respectively.
Strategic Report
38
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Top and emerging risks 
Our top and emerging risks report identifies 
forward-looking risks so that they can be 
considered in determining whether any 
incremental action is needed to either 
prevent them from materialising or to limit 
their effect. Top risks are those that have the 
potential to have a material adverse impact 
on the financial results, reputation or 
business model of the Group. We actively 
manage and take actions to mitigate our top 
risks. Emerging risks are those that, while 
they could have a material impact on our risk 
profile were they to occur, are not considered 
immediate and are not under active 
management. Our suite of top and emerging 
risks is subject to regular review by senior 
governance forums. We continue to monitor 
closely the identified risks and agree 
management actions to remediate and/or 
reduce them to acceptable levels, as 
required. 
Risk
Trend Description
Externally driven
Geopolitical and 
macroeconomic risks ~
Our operations and portfolios are subject to risks arising from political instability, civil unrest and military conflict, which could 
lead to disruption of our operations, physical risk to our staff and/or physical damage to our assets. We are also subject to 
cyclical and idiosyncratic macroeconomic risks. Among the key risks to the economic outlook is the prospective recalibration 
of economic and trade policies following elections in the US and other markets in 2024. This could prove disruptive to the 
global economy.
Technology and 
cybersecurity risk
~
There is an increased risk of service disruption or loss of data resulting from technology failures or malicious activities from 
internal or external threats. We continue to monitor changes to the technology and threat landscape, including those arising 
from ongoing geopolitical and macroeconomic events and the impact this may have on third-party risk management. We 
operate a continuous improvement programme to help support the resilience and stability of our technology operations and 
counter a fast-evolving and heightened cyber threat environment.
Environmental, social 
and governance 
(‘ESG’) risks
~
We are subject to ESG risks, including in relation to climate change, nature and human rights. These risks have increased 
owing to the pace and volume of regulatory developments globally, signs of diverging national agendas, increasing frequency 
of severe weather events, which require careful monitoring, and may impact financial and non-financial risks due to 
stakeholders placing more emphasis on financial institutions’ actions and investment decisions in respect of ESG matters. 
Failure to meet these evolving expectations may result in financial and non-financial risks, including reputational, legal and 
regulatory compliance risks.
Financial crime risk 
~
We are exposed to financial crime risk from our customers, staff and third parties engaging in criminal activity. The financial 
crime risk environment is heightened due to increasingly complex geopolitical challenges, the macroeconomic outlook, the 
complex and dynamic nature of sanctions and export control compliance, evolving financial crime regulations, rapid 
technological developments, an increasing number of national data privacy requirements and the increasing sophistication of 
fraud. As a result, we will continue to face the possibility of regulatory enforcement and reputational risk.
Digitalisation and 
technological 
advances 
~
Developments in technology and changes in regulations continue to enable new entrants to the banking industry as well as 
new products and services offered by competitors. This challenges us to continue to innovate with new digital capabilities and 
evolve our products, to attract, retain and best serve our customers. Along with opportunities, new technology, including 
generative AI, can introduce risks and disruption. We seek to manage technology developments with appropriate controls and 
oversight.
Evolving regulatory 
environment risk
}
The regulatory and compliance risk environment is set against continued geopolitical risk and regulatory focus on operational 
resilience, financial resilience, model risk, ESG, financial crime and risk management practices. Multiple jurisdictions are 
progressing the implementation of Basel 3.1 standards to various timescales, some of which are being delayed. The 
governmental and regulatory focus on improving pro-business growth is also driving legislative and regulatory change.
Internally driven
Data risk
}
We use data to serve our customers and run our operations, often in real-time within digital experiences and processes. If our 
data is not accurate and timely, our ability to serve customers, operate with resilience or meet regulatory requirements could 
be impacted. We seek to ensure that non-public data is kept confidential, and that we comply with the growing number of 
regulations that govern data privacy and cross-border movement of data.
Risks arising from the 
receipt of services 
from third parties 
}
We procure goods and services from a range of third parties. Due to the current macroeconomic and geopolitical climate, the 
risk of service disruption in our supply chain remains heightened. We continue to strengthen our controls, oversight and risk 
management policies and processes to select and manage third parties, including our third parties’ own supply chains, 
particularly for key activities that could affect our operational resilience.
Model risk
~
Model risk arises whenever business decision making includes reliance on models. We use models in both financial and nonfinancial contexts, as well as in a range of business applications. Evolving regulatory requirements are driving material 
changes to the way model risk is managed across the banking industry, with a particular focus on capital models. New 
technologies, including AI and generative AI, are driving a need for enhanced model risk controls.
Change execution risk
}
Delivering change effectively is critical to achieving our strategy and enables us to meet rapidly-evolving customer and 
stakeholder needs. We seek to deliver complex change in line with established risk management processes, prioritising 
sustainable outcomes and understanding the associated risks. We focus on meeting industry and regulatory expectations and 
fulfilling our obligations to customers and clients.
Risks associated with 
workforce capability, 
capacity and 
environmental factors 
with potential impact 
on growth
~
Our businesses, functions and geographies are exposed to risks associated with employee retention and talent availability, 
changing skills requirements of our workforce, and compliance with employment laws and regulations. Attrition across the 
Group remains stable, but failure to manage these risks may impact the delivery of our strategic objectives or lead to 
regulatory sanctions or legal claims, and the risks are heightened during the current period of fundamental organisational 
change.
~ Risk heightened during 2024 } Risk remained at the same level as 2023 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
39
Strategic report

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Long-term viability and going 
concern statement
Under the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
the Directors are required to provide a viability 
statement that must state whether the Group 
will be able to continue in operation and meet 
its liabilities, taking into account its current 
position and the principal risks it faces. They 
must also specify the period covered by, and 
the appropriateness of, this statement.
The Directors have specified a period of three 
years to 31 December 2027. They are satisfied 
that a forward-looking assessment of the 
Group for this period is sufficient to enable a 
reasonable statement of viability. In addition, 
this period is covered by the Group’s stress 
testing programmes, and its internal 
projections for profitability, key capital ratios 
and leverage ratios. Notwithstanding this, our 
stress testing programmes also cover 
scenarios out to five years and our 
assessments of risks are beyond three years 
where appropriate (see page 131):
– This period is representative of the time 
horizon to consider the impact of ongoing 
regulatory changes in the financial services 
industry.
– Our updated business plan covers 2025 –
2029.
The Board, having made appropriate enquiries, 
is satisfied that the Group as a whole has 
adequate resources to continue operations for 
a period of at least 12 months from the date of 
this report, and it therefore continues to adopt 
the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements.
Based upon their assessment, the Directors 
have a reasonable expectation that the Group 
will be able to continue in operation and meet 
liabilities as they fall due over the next three 
years.
In making their going concern and viability 
assessments, the Directors have considered a 
wide range of detailed information relating to 
present and potential conditions, including 
projections for profitability, liquidity, capital 
requirements and capital resources.
The Directors carried out a robust 
assessment of the emerging and principal 
risks facing the Group to determine its longterm viability, including those that would 
threaten its solvency and liquidity. They 
determined that the principal risks are the 
Group’s top and emerging risks as set out on 
page 39. These include geopolitical and 
macroeconomic risks (including geopolitical 
tensions and their impact on sanctions, trade 
restrictions and tariff increases, and 
continued distressed Chinese economic 
activity), digitalisation and technological 
advances, financial crime risk and ESG risks, 
all of which have remained at heightened 
levels during 2024.
The Directors assessed that all of the top and 
emerging risks identified are considered to be 
material and, therefore, appropriate to be 
classified as the principal risks to be 
considered in the assessment of viability. They 
also appraised the impact that these principal 
risks could have on the Group’s risk profile, 
taking account of mitigating actions planned or 
taken for each, and compared this with the 
Group’s risk appetite as approved by the 
Board. 
In carrying out their assessment of the 
principal risks, the Directors considered a wide 
range of information including:
– details of the Group’s business and 
operating models, and strategy (see page 
11);
– details of the Group’s approach to managing 
risk and allocating capital;
– a summary of the Group’s financial position 
considering performance, its ability to 
maintain minimum levels of regulatory 
capital, liquidity funding and the minimum 
requirements for own funds and eligible 
liabilities over the period of the assessment. 
Notable are the risks which the Directors 
believe could adversely impact the Group’s 
future results or operations;
– enterprise risk reports, including the 
Group’s risk appetite profile (see page 127) 
and top and emerging risks (see page 131); 
– the impact on the Group due to the RussiaUkraine war and conflict in the Middle East; 
uncertainty around Hong Kong and mainland 
China’s commercial real estate sector, 
potential trade restrictions and tariff 
increases and strained economic and 
diplomatic relations between China and the 
US, the UK, the EU and other countries;
– reports and updates regarding regulatory and 
internal stress testing. In 2024 the Bank of 
England completed their Desk Based Stress 
Test exercise to assess the resilience of the 
UK banking system. The stress scenario 
explored the potential impacts of a number 
of adverse macroeconomic conditions, 
including global aggregate demand and 
supply shock, global commodity prices and 
supply-chain disruptions from increased 
geopolitical tensions, uncertain inflation 
across advanced economies and rapidly 
changing interest rates. Additionally, HSBC 
completed the 2024 Group-wide internal 
stress test, which explored the impact of 
two contrasting scenarios depicting severe 
macroeconomic conditions over a five-year 
period, reflecting banking sector strains and 
global economic stress. The results of both 
these exercises indicated the Group is 
sufficiently capitalised to withstand severe 
but plausible adverse stress; 
– the results of our 2024 internal climate 
scenario analysis exercise further 
demonstrate the Group is sufficiently 
capitalised to withstand severe stress. 
Further details of the insights from the 2024 
climate scenario analysis are explained from 
page 223;
– reports and updates from management on 
risk-related issues selected for in-depth 
consideration;
– reports and updates on regulatory 
developments;
– legal proceedings and regulatory matters set 
out in Note 35 on the financial statements; 
and
– reports and updates from management on 
the operational resilience of the Group. 
Aileen Taylor
Group Chief People & Governance Officer
19 February 2025
Strategic Report
40
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
41
Environmental, 
social and 
governance 
review
Our ESG review sets out our approach to our 
environment, customers, employees and 
governance. It explains how we aim to achieve 
our purpose, deliver our strategy in a way that is 
sustainable, and build strong relationships with all 
of our stakeholders.
How we present our TCFD disclosures
Our overall approach to TCFD can be found on page 18 and 
additional information is included on pages 444 to 450. Further 
details have been embedded in this section and the Risk review 
section on pages 219 to 228. Our TCFD disclosures are highlighted 
with the following symbol: 
42 Environmental 
63 Social
73 Governance
Shanghai, China, 1870s. Waterfront View.
TCFD
ESG review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Environmental TCFD
Transition to net zero
We aim to support the transition to net zero and a sustainable future 
in partnership with our customers and other stakeholders
At a glance
Supporting the transition to net zero is a key 
priority for HSBC. In 2020, we set an ambition to 
become a net zero bank by 2050. We continue 
to develop our capabilities, products and services 
to support our customers’ transition, reduce 
emissions in our own operations and partner for 
systemic change.
We believe supporting our customers’ transition 
both benefits their business and helps generate 
long-term financial returns for our shareholders. 
Since we set our net zero ambition, we have 
seen promising progress in some vital areas of 
the decarbonisation challenge. Yet while the 
transition has progressed, the global pace of 
change remains insufficient. We are limited by, 
and cannot on our own overcome, the present 
lag in policy measures and the overall slower 
pace of the transition.
In our net zero transition plan published in 
January 2024 we committed to continually 
calibrate our approach to take into consideration 
the latest scientific methodologies, climaterelated policies, and developments in the real 
world, given that our sector portfolios reflect 
progress in the regional economies where we 
operate. As we near the mid-point towards our 
own 2030 targets, it is important to take stock of 
our own progress so far. We have made good 
progress in reducing the emissions from our 
own operations but more uneven progress 
towards our ambitions for our financed 
emissions footprint.
Financed emissions
Our strategy is to support emissions reductions 
in the wider economy by working with our 
portfolio of customers to facilitate the emissions 
reductions they are seeking to make. We 
continue to focus on engaging with our 
customers on their transition plans, managing 
the products and services that we offer, and 
adapting the financing choices we make to help 
move the world towards a resilient, net zero 
economy. 
We have set 2030 targets that combine financed 
and facilitated emissions for the oil and gas 
sector on an absolute emissions reduction basis, 
and for the power and utilities sector using an 
emissions intensity metric. We have also set a 
target for on-balance sheet financed emissions 
for thermal coal mining. 
For demand-side sectors, we have set 2030 
emissions intensity targets to reflect the need to 
scale up low-emissions technologies while 
transitioning away from existing high-emitting 
technologies in transport and industry. As part of 
our financial reporting, we present the progress 
for these sectors against our published financed 
emissions baselines and targets.
As we have set out in our net zero transition 
plan, we must acknowledge that there are 
fundamental prerequisites, outside of our 
control, which impact our ability to meet our 
2030 interim financed emissions targets. These 
include technological advancements, 
diversification of the energy mix, market demand 
for climate solutions, evolving customer 
preferences, and government leadership and 
effective policy.
At the current pace of decarbonisation, a 
combination of the above factors has led to the 
transition being slower than envisaged by recent 
Paris-aligned net zero scenarios. Against this 
background, we have begun a review of our 
interim 2030 financed emission targets and 
associated policies as part of the annual net zero 
transition plan review referenced in our 3Q24 
earnings release in October. 
As we calibrate our approach for the latest 
context, we will seek to balance being ambitious 
on net zero while recognising the present nearterm global challenges and the associated 
impact of the transition playing out differently 
across the regions and sectors we serve. In 
doing so we plan to draw on the latest scientific 
evidence and credible industry-specific 
pathways, while, at the same time, maintaining 
our commitment under our 2021 Climate 
Resolution.
Own operations and supply chain 
In 2020, we set an ambition to reach net zero in 
our operations and supply chain by 2030. Our 
approach is to reduce emissions from 
consumption, replace consumption with lowemissions alternatives, and remove remaining 
emissions with high-quality carbon credits, in line 
with external guidance.
We continue to make good progress in driving 
down our direct emissions. However, progress 
in reducing scope 3 emissions in our supply 
chain is proving slower than we anticipated, 
driven mainly by the slower pace of the transition 
across the real economy.
While we remain committed to our approach, it 
has become clear that we would need to rely 
heavily on carbon offsets to achieve net zero in 
our supply chain by 2030. As such, we have 
revisited our ambition to take into account latest 
best practice guidance on carbon offsets. We are 
now focused on achieving net zero across our 
operations, travel and supply chain by 2050.
In this section
Understanding 
our climate 
reporting
We continue to evolve our disclosures taking into consideration data 
limitations and other challenges, and provide an overview of key changes for 
2024.
 Page 43
Supporting our 
customers
Sustainable finance and 
investment
We seek to support our customers’ transition to net zero, including through 
the provision and facilitation of sustainable finance and investment solutions. 
 Page 45
Partnering for 
systemic change
Supporting systemic change 
to help deliver net zero
We focus on building partnerships that help support an enabling environment for 
scaling net zero solutions in the geographies most impacted by climate change.
 Page 47
Embedding net 
zero
Financed emissions
We aim to align our financed emissions to achieve net zero by 2050.
 Page 48
Net zero in our own 
operations
We aim to achieve net zero in our own operations, travel and supply chain by 
2050, in line with our overarching net zero ambition.
 Page 58
Managing climate risk
We manage climate risk across our businesses in line with our Group-wide risk 
management framework and continue to enhance our stress testing and 
scenario analysis capability to identify and understand climate-related risks. 
 Page 60
Sustainability risk policies
Our sustainability risk policies help to set out our appetite for financing and 
advisory activities in certain sectors.
 Page 61
ESG review | Environment 
42
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Understanding our climate reporting
Continuing to evolve our climate 
disclosures
We engage with standard setters to support 
the development of transparent and consistent 
climate-related industry standards in areas such 
as product labelling, sustainability disclosures, 
sustainable finance taxonomy and emissions 
accounting. In 2025, we will continue to review 
and enhance our approach to disclosures.
Internal and external data challenges 
The effective measurement, governance and 
reporting of progress against our climate 
ambitions relies heavily on the availability and 
quality of both internal and external data. 
Newer data sources and topics may be difficult 
to assure using traditional verification 
techniques. This, coupled with diverse external 
data sources and complex structures, further 
complicates data consolidation. Our internal 
data on customer groups that was used to 
source financial exposure and emissions data, 
is based on credit and relationship 
management factors and is not always aligned 
with the need to analyse emissions across 
sector value chains. This can result in 
inconsistencies in our financed emissions 
calculations.
We continue to invest in the development of 
data and analytics capabilities to support our 
transition. This includes sourcing more reliable 
data from external providers. We are also 
developing our processes, systems, controls 
and governance to meet the demands of future 
ESG reporting. 
Given our dependency on collecting emissions 
data from our clients and the manual nature of 
the process, enhanced verification and 
assurance procedures are performed on a 
sample basis over this data, including the first 
and second lines of defence. Our climate 
models undergo independent review by an 
internal model review group, and we obtain 
limited assurance on our financed emissions 
and sustainable finance disclosures from 
external parties, including our external auditors. 
Policies and implementation
We continue to review and enhance 
implementation of sustainability risk policies as 
we apply them in practice. They are reviewed 
and, where appropriate, updated based on 
factors including risk materiality, 
implementation experience, evolving scientific 
guidance, updated climate scenarios, policy 
and regulatory requirements and evolving 
industry practices.
Lack of consistency across sustainable 
finance taxonomies
Sustainable finance metrics, taxonomies and 
practices currently lack global consistency. As 
standards develop and regulatory guidance 
evolves across jurisdictions, our targets, 
methodologies and disclosures may also 
need to adapt. Recognising these challenges, 
we have developed and disclosed our 
Sustainable Finance and Investment Data 
Dictionary to accompany reporting against our 
sustainable financing and investment 
ambition. For further details, see page 45.
The evolution of the dictionary could lead to 
differences in year-on-year reporting. We 
continue to engage with standard setters in 
different regions to support the development 
of transparent and consistent taxonomies to 
encourage science-based decarbonisation, 
particularly in high transition risk sectors. 
Impact on our reporting and financial 
statements
We have assessed the impact of climate risk 
on our balance sheet and have concluded that 
no incremental adjustments were needed to 
capture climate impacts in our financial 
statements for the year ended 31 December 
2024. The effects of climate change are a 
source of uncertainty. We capture known and 
observable potential impacts of climaterelated risks in our asset valuations and 
balance sheet calculations. These are 
considered in relevant areas of our balance 
sheet, including expected credit losses, 
classification and measurement of financial 
instruments, goodwill and other intangible 
assets; and in making the long-term viability 
and going concern assessment. As part of 
assessing the impact on our financial 
statements we conducted scenario analysis 
to understand the impact of climate risk on 
our business (see pages 60 and 223). For 
further details of how management 
considered the impact of climate-related risks 
on its financial position and performance, see 
‘Critical estimates and judgements’ on page 
354.
Progress on our net zero transition plan 
We continue to take actions across our 
organisation to support the implementation of 
our net zero transition plan. This report 
provides key updates on our progress in 2024 
and our annual TCFD reporting.
 For further details of our climate risk exposures, 
see page 219.
Key changes to our 2024 disclosures
We are committed to timely and 
transparent reporting. However, we 
recognise that challenges may result in us 
having to change certain disclosures. In 
2024, there was an impact on certain 
climate disclosures, including:
– Financed emissions for the automotive, 
thermal coal mining and aviation sectors: 
In 2024, we made a methodological 
change to the way we calculate 
financed emissions for our automotive 
clients. In addition, we identified errors 
in both the thermal coal mining and 
aviation sectors, including errors in 
lending product codes. These changes 
have resulted in a 25% decrease in 
emissions reported for automotive and a 
30% increase in emissions reported for 
aviation in 2022 figures, and a 18% 
increase in emissions reported for 
thermal coal mining in the 2020 baseline 
figure on an absolute financed 
emissions basis. For further details, see 
page 51.
– Thermal coal exposure: we continue to 
refine our basis of preparation and have 
made further enhancements in 2024. 
For further details, see page 62.
– Supply chain emissions: we have 
restated our supply chain emissions due 
to revisions in our methodology and an 
error in the mapping of industry averages. 
This has resulted in a 25% increase to 
our 2019 baseline emissions and a 2% 
increase to our 2023 reported emissions. 
For further details, see page 59.
– Asset management financed emissions 
2019 baseline: we have re-baselined our 
2019 intensity figure due to an error in 
the issuer mapping and is now 124 
tCO2e/M$ invested versus 131 tCO2e/
M$ invested reported in the Annual 
Report and Accounts 2022. For further 
details, see page 57.
– Energy consumption: We have restated 
our 2019 metric for total energy 
consumption due to an error. For further 
details, see page 59
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
43
ESG review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Explaining scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions
To measure and manage our greenhouse gas 
emissions, we follow the Greenhouse Gas Protocol 
global framework, which identifies three scopes 
of emissions. Scope 1 represents the direct 
emissions we create. Scope 2 represents the 
indirect emissions resulting from the use of 
electricity and energy to run a business. Scope 3 
represents indirect emissions attributed to upstream 
and downstream activities. Our upstream activities 
include business travel and emissions from our 
supply chain including transport, distribution and 
waste. Our downstream activities include those 
related to investments and including financed 
emissions.
Under the protocol, scope 3 emissions are also 
broken down into 15 categories, of which we 
provide reporting emissions data for three related 
to upstream activities. These are: purchased goods 
and services (category 1); capital goods (category 2); 
and business travel (category 6). We also report 
data on downstream activities for financed 
emissions (category 15). 
 For further breakdown of our scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, see our ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
1 Our analysis of financed emissions comprises ‘on-balance sheet financed emissions’ and ‘facilitated emissions’.
Assurance relating to ESG metrics TCFD
HSBC Holdings plc is responsible for 
preparation of the ESG information and all 
supporting records, including selecting 
appropriate measurement and reporting 
criteria, in this Annual Report and Accounts 
2024, ESG Data Pack and the additional reports 
published on our website.
We recognise the importance of ESG 
disclosures and the quality of data underpinning 
them. We also acknowledge that our internal 
processes to support ESG disclosures continue 
to be developed and that currently they partly 
rely on manual sourcing and categorisation of 
data. Certain aspects of our ESG disclosures are 
subject to enhanced verification and assurance 
procedures including the first, second and third 
lines of defence. Assurance assists with 
reducing the risk of misstatement, although it 
cannot be fully eliminated given the challenges 
in data, evolving methodologies and emerging 
standards. We aim to continue to enhance our 
approach in line with external regulations and 
expectations. 
For 2024, ESG metrics are subject to standalone independent limited third-party assurance 
in accordance with the International Standard 
on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) 
‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits or 
Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ 
and, in respect of the greenhouse gas 
emissions, in accordance with the International 
Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410 
‘Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas 
Statements’, issued by the International 
Auditing and Assurance Standards Board, on 
the following specific ESG metrics:
– our use of proceeds from Green Bond 
 
issuances 2024 (published in December 
2024);
– our cumulative sustainable finance and 
investment provided and facilitated from 
1 January 2020 to 31 December 2024 (see 
page 45);
– our on-balance sheet financed emissions for 
2023 for six sectors, our on-balance sheet 
financed emissions for 2021 and 2022 for 
thermal coal mining, and our facilitated 
emissions for two sectors for 2023 (see 
page 56); 
– our thermal coal financing drawn balance 
exposures for 2021 and 2022 (see page 62); 
– our own operations’ scope 1, 2 and 3 
(business travel) greenhouse gas emissions 
data (see page 59), as well as supply chain 
emissions (purchased good and services, and 
capital goods) data; and
– our re-baselined 2019 intensity metric and the 
scope 1 and 2 financed emission intensity 
achieved by 31 December 2023 for our HSBC 
asset management business (see page 57).
The work performed for independent limited 
assurance is substantially less than the work 
performed for a reasonable assurance opinion, 
such as that provided for financial statements.
 Our data dictionaries and methodologies for 
preparing the above ESG-related metrics and 
independent third-party limited assurance reports 
can be found at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esgand-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
ESG review | Environment 
44
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Our own 
operations and 
supply chain 
See page 58
Scope 2 
Indirect 
Scope 3 
Indirect
Scope 1 
Direct
Scope 31 
Indirect
Our financed 
emissions See 
page 48
Electricity, 
steam 
heating 
and 
cooling
Purchased 
goods and 
services 
(Category 1)
Company 
facilities 
Company 
vehicles 
Business travel 
(Category 6)
Capital goods 
(Category 2)
Investments and 
financed emissions 
(category 15)
Upstream activities
Downstream activities
HSBC Holdings

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Supporting our customers
Sustainable finance and investment TCFD
We aim to help our customers transition to 
net zero and a sustainable future by providing 
and facilitating between $750bn and $1tn of 
sustainable finance and investment by 2030. 
Our sustainable finance and investment 
ambition aims to help promote green, 
sustainable and socially-focused business and 
sustainable investment products and 
solutions.
Since 1 January 2020, we have provided and 
facilitated a cumulative $352.5bn of 
sustainable finance and $41.1bn of ESG and 
sustainable investing, as defined in our 
Sustainable Finance and Investment Data 
Dictionary 2024. This included 39% where 
the use of proceeds was dedicated to green 
financing, 12% to social financing, and 15% 
to other sustainable financing. It also included 
24% of sustainability-linked financing and 
10% of net new investment flows managed 
and distributed on behalf of investors. 
In 2024, our underwriting of green, social, 
sustainability and sustainability-linked bonds 
for clients increased over the year, measured 
on a proportional share basis, in line with the 
wider bond market environment, although it 
remained at 15% of our total bond 
underwriting. 
On-balance sheet sustainable lending 
transactions increased by 11% compared 
with 2023. In 2024, transactions totalling 
$0.5bn were identified as no longer fulfilling 
our eligibility criteria. These were declassified 
and removed from the cumulative progress 
total, and reported as a negative entry in 
2024. Since 1 January 2020, the cumulative 
amount declassified from the total is $1.2bn. 
Continued progress towards achieving our 
sustainable finance and investment ambition 
is dependent on market demand for the 
products and services set out in our 
Sustainable Finance and Investment Data 
Dictionary 2024.
Sustainable finance and investment summary
1
2024
($bn)
2023
($bn)
2022
($bn)
2021
($bn)
2020
($bn)
Cumulative 
progress 
since 2020 
($bn)
Balance sheet-related transactions provided
2
47.4
42.7
42.2
26.0
10.4
168.7
Capital markets/advisory (facilitated)
37.3
33.3
34.5
48.7
30.0
183.8
ESG and sustainable investing (net new flows)
14.5
7.7
7.5
7.7
3.7
41.1
Total contribution
6
99.2
83.7
84.2
82.4
44.1
393.6
Sustainable finance and investment classification by theme
1
Green use of proceeds
5
42.2
37.1
29.0
27.1
18.9
154.3
Social use of proceeds
9.6
8.4
6.7
11.3
9.7
45.7
Other sustainable use of proceeds
3
13.9
10.7
12.6
11.7
8.3
57.2
Sustainability-linked
4
19.0
19.8
28.4
24.6
3.5
95.3
ESG and sustainable investing
14.5
7.7
7.5
7.7
3.7
41.1
Total contribution
6
99.2
83.7
84.2
82.4
44.1
393.6
1 The 2024 data in this table has been prepared in accordance with our Sustainable Finance and Investment Data Dictionary 2024, which includes green, social and 
sustainability activities. The amounts provided and facilitated include: the limits agreed for balance sheet-related transactions provided (including drawn and 
undrawn amounts), the proportional share of facilitated capital markets/advisory activities and ESG and sustainable investing net new flows of both HSBC-owned 
(Asset Management) sustainable investment funds and Wealth and Global Private Banking investments.
2 In 2024 only 9 months of WPB green/energy efficient mortgages were included for the first time within Other Qualified Green Lending, future years’ reporting will 
include 12 months of transactions.
3 Sustainable use of proceeds can be used for green, social or a combination of green and social purposes, assessed by HSBC against internal standards and 
relevant industry guidelines.
4 Sustainability-linked products, where the coupon or interest rate is dependent on whether the borrower achieves certain pre-defined sustainability performance 
target(s), are assessed by HSBC against internal standards and relevant industry guidelines and can be used for general purposes, which may be sustainable or 
non-sustainable.
5 Included within the total cumulative contribution towards our ambition are transactions to customers within the six high transition risk sectors (i.e. automotive, 
chemicals, construction and building materials, metal and mining, oil and gas, and power and utilities) as described on page 221, of which approximately $56bn is 
defined as green use of proceeds in line with the Sustainable Finance and Investment Data Dictionary 2024. 
6 The $393.6bn cumulative progress since 1 January 2020 is subject to independent third-party limited assurance in accordance with International Standard on 
Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’. Our Sustainable Finance and 
Investment Data Dictionary 2024 and independent third-party limited assurance report is available at: www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/
esg-reporting-centre.
Our sustainable finance and investment data dictionary
We define sustainable finance and investment 
as any form of financial service that integrates 
ESG criteria into business or investment 
decisions. This includes financing, investing 
and related activities that support the 
achievement of the UN SDGs, including but 
not limited to the aims of the Paris Agreement 
on climate change.
Our Sustainable Finance and Investment Data 
Dictionary sets out our approach for classifying 
financing and investment as sustainable for the 
purpose of tracking and disclosing our 
performance against our sustainable finance 
and investment ambition.
We update our data dictionary annually, 
including reviewing our product definitions, 
adding new qualifying products and removing 
products that no longer qualify, making 
enhancements to our internal standards, and 
developing our reporting and governance. This 
year, we also indicate for the first time the 
types of eligible environmental and social 
activities we intend to consider going forward 
when qualifying certain use of proceeds 
financing for inclusion towards our sustainable 
finance and investment ambition including: 
climate solutions; nature; adaptation and socialrelated activities. 
We engage in industry initiatives to develop our 
understanding and approach to ‘transition 
finance’. However, we do not currently plan to 
include transition finance as a product label or 
stand-alone category in our data dictionary and 
reporting. We will continue to monitor industry 
guidance as it develops. 
 For our 2024 ESG Data Pack and Sustainable 
Finance and Investment Data Dictionary, see 
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-andresponsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
45
ESG review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Sustainable finance and investment continued TCFD
Leveraging our strengths
We are focused on three key areas that play to 
our strengths as an organisation and can help 
deliver an impact on decarbonisation in the 
global economy, particularly in Asia-Pacific and 
the Middle East where the need for financing at 
scale is most critical. In 2024, we were named 
the world’s best bank for sustainable finance in 
the Euromoney Awards for Excellence.
Transitioning industry
We support our clients in emissions-intensive 
industries with their transition goals by engaging 
with them on their transition plans and by 
providing financing solutions.
In 2024, we refreshed transition plan 
assessments for major clients in the oil and gas, 
power and utilities and coal mining sectors, and 
we began assessing major clients in the 
automotive, aviation, cement, steel and 
aluminium sectors, to better understand their 
objectives and identify opportunities to enable 
their decarbonisation strategies.
Development of clean power generation is 
critical to achieving net zero. We supported Abu 
Dhabi Future Energy Company (Masdar) towards 
its equity commitments on new greenfield 
projects in renewable energy and energy 
efficiency, by acting as joint lead manager and 
bookrunner in raising $1bn through its second 
green bond issuance. 
Scaling infrastructure finance plays an important 
role in meeting global decarbonisation 
objectives. In 2024, we launched HSBC 
Infrastructure Finance (‘HIF’), which brings 
together our infrastructure finance, export 
finance, and debt/project finance capabilities to 
increase our capacity to realise opportunities in 
the transition to a low carbon economy.
Pentagreen Capital, our joint venture with 
Singapore investment firm Temasek targets 
marginally bankable clean energy and adaptation 
projects in Southeast Asia to support them to 
commercial scale, with the aim of accelerating the 
transition to a low carbon economy. Pentagreen 
Capital completed its second deal in 2024: a green 
loan for BE C&I Solutions to catalyse the 
construction of distributed sustainable bioenergy 
projects across Southeast Asia and India.
To support our WPB customers, HSBC UK 
launched Energy Efficient Home Cashback 
Mortgages, to offer cashback incentives to 
customers taking out our mortgage loans to 
finance their purchases of residential properties 
with an A or B EPC rating.
Catalysing the new economy
We aim to support clean industrial development 
and the scaling of entrepreneurial new economy 
companies at all stages of financing across the 
markets we operate in. We do this through 
direct financing and investment as well as 
through catalytic partnerships. 
We continue to work closely with Breakthrough 
Energy in developing and deploying critical 
climate solutions. We are an anchor partner in 
the Breakthrough Energy Catalyst platform, 
which provides expertise, resources and capital 
into first-of-a-kind or first commercial scale 
projects. Additionally, in 2024 we directly 
supported a number of Breakthrough Energy 
Ventures portfolio companies with venture debt 
and other banking services. We acted as a lead 
arranger in a $100m credit facility for US-based 
Electric Hydrogen to support the manufacturing 
and deployment of the company’s electrolyser 
plants in producing green hydrogen. 
In 2024, we launched a partnership with Google 
Cloud to offer banking support for climate tech 
companies in the Google Cloud Ready 
Sustainability programme, and support them to 
scale up. These companies can now access 
HSBC products and services that are tailored to 
their specific growth ambitions, including 
venture debt financing options and support from 
our specialist climate tech finance team.
Decarbonising trade and supply chains
We continue to focus on helping to decarbonise 
trade flows and supply chains through our green 
trade finance and sustainable trade instruments, 
sustainable supply chain financing and 
sustainability-linked lending for trade. 
We supported PDS Limited, a global fashion 
infrastructure platform, on a trade facility to 
enable deployment of working capital linked to 
the successful delivery of environmental and 
social targets across their operations, aligned to 
their ESG approach.
Mid-market and smaller businesses make up a 
large proportion of global supply chains. In 2024, 
we expanded our sustainable finance 
capabilities with the launch of a sustainability 
improvement loan (‘SIL’) for businesses of this 
size in Hong Kong and Singapore, broadening 
the sustainable finance options available in the 
region. We recently completed our first SIL 
transaction in Asia-Pacific with Opal Cosmetics, 
a manufacturer and seller of personal care and 
beauty products headquartered in Hong Kong 
and with a global supply chain. The proceeds 
from the facility will support the company’s 
general working capital needs and ongoing 
research and development activities. We now 
offer sustainability improvement loans to clients 
in 11 markets.
 For more examples of how we are supporting 
our customers, see additional case studies on 
pages 19, 48, 49, 50, 51, and 57.
ESG and sustainable investing
We offer a broad suite of ESG and sustainable 
investing solutions across asset management, 
wealth, private banking, and insurance, to help 
institutional and individual investors generate 
financial returns, manage risk and pursue ESGrelated objectives in line with their preferences.
As at 31 December 2024, HSBC Asset 
Management managed $179.8bn in ESG and 
sustainable investing portfolios for internal and 
external investors. This includes those that are 
distributed by HSBC Wealth and Private Banking 
and those HSBC Asset Management manages 
on behalf of HSBC Life. 
HSBC Asset Management recognises that its 
clients’ investment objectives are evolving, and 
sustainability preferences vary, and offers a 
broad range of sustainable investing solutions, in 
both traditional and alternative areas of 
investment. Our ESG and sustainable investing 
approach includes impact funds with a clear 
ESG or sustainable objective, thematic funds 
that seek to invest in ESG or sustainable trends, 
and strategies that seek to mitigate ESG risks by 
investing assets with higher ESG performance 
and exclusions of those that are lower ESG 
performing. Considerations across our approach 
can include, but are not limited to, climate or 
net-zero transition plans and controversies 
identified related to UN SDGs.
For the avoidance of doubt, products or assets 
invested pursuant to our ESG and sustainable 
investing approach do not necessarily qualify as 
‘sustainable investments’ as defined by the EU 
Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation and/or 
other relevant regulations, and may not qualify as 
‘sustainable’ products for the purposes of the UK 
Sustainability Disclosure Requirements and 
European Securities and Markets Authority fund 
naming guidance and/or any other regulatory 
standards. The HSBC ESG and sustainable 
investing approach is an internal classification 
used to establish our own ESG and sustainable 
investing standards and to promote consistency 
across asset classes and HSBC business lines 
where relevant. Our ESG and sustainable 
investing approach should not be relied on 
externally to assess the sustainability 
characteristics of any given product.
For our private banking and wealth customers, 
we offer a range of ESG and sustainable investing 
products across different asset classes, including 
mutual funds, ETFs, equities, fixed income, 
discretionary and alternatives. In 2024, we 
continued to expand our investment offering with 
the launch of eight ESG and sustainable investing 
mutual funds and ETFs. We regularly publish 
insights to help our clients better understand the 
ESG implications of their investments.
In 2024, we made updates to integrate ESG into 
our client wealth advisory journey in both 
Switzerland and Luxembourg, including building 
capabilities to understand private banking 
clients’ sustainability preferences, rebalance 
their investment portfolios and monitor 
portfolios in line with their preferences. We also 
integrated client sustainability preferences into 
the investment product filtering process for 
retail wealth clients in Hong Kong.
In 2024, HSBC Life increased ESG and 
sustainable investing assets across its insurance 
manufacturing entities in Asia, Europe, and Latin 
America. The majority of these newly-deployed 
assets were green and sustainability-linked 
bonds, followed by placements into sustainable 
private credit funds.
 For further details of our asset management 
policies, see page 62. 
ESG review | Environment 
46
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Partnering for systemic change
Supporting systemic change to help deliver net zero
We focus on building strategic partnerships that 
can help to create an enabling environment for 
mobilising finance, and support development 
and scaling-up of solutions for the net zero 
transition. For example, in 2024 we made a 
strategic investment in sustainable aviation fuel 
(‘SAF’) through a one-time purchase agreement 
for approximately 1.2m US gallons of SAF 
produced by EcoCeres, which will be used to 
refuel Cathay Pacific aircraft at Hong Kong 
International Airport.
We continue to participate in several 
sustainability-related cross-industry alliances and 
initiatives to help stimulate industry engagement 
on climate and nature-related issues, encourage 
the flow of finance for the net zero transition, 
and improve global financial standards, 
guidance, and frameworks to mobilise finance 
and accelerate action.
Through our philanthropy, we partner with a 
range of non-governmental organisations to 
develop thought leadership, spur innovation, 
build capacity and test and scale climate 
solutions.
Highlights from our net zero and 
sustainability-aligned partnerships
In 2024 we donated approximately $9m in grant 
funding to help establish a portfolio of 
partnerships aligned to the strategic focus areas 
set out in our net zero transition plan: 
transitioning industry, catalysing the new 
economy, and decarbonising trade and supply 
chains. We are also supporting initiatives 
focused on driving progress on cross-cutting 
issues, such as nature and the just transition.
Our collaboration with the Mission Possible 
Partnership seeks to support decarbonisation of 
some of the world’s hard-to-abate heavy 
industry and transport sectors. We are funding a 
joint initiative focused on demand creation for 
green building materials in the Middle East, 
fostering collaboration among industry leaders, 
policymakers, and innovators to unlock projects.
We launched a new partnership with Third 
Derivative and Founders Factory to support 
climate tech innovation focused on hard-to-abate 
sectors, particularly in Asia where there is a 
significant need and growing market for such 
technologies. The partnership seeks to provide 
capacity building and facilitate connections with 
the investment community to support the 
development and scaling of key climate 
technologies.
Our partnership with the Venture Climate 
Alliance (‘VCA’) supports venture capital firms to 
shape and share best practices that help to 
prepare them for the climate transition at the 
earliest stages of business creation. Work is 
underway on developing a climate solutions 
framework to support portfolio-level climate 
impact disclosure and expand VCA membership 
across emerging markets.
We are supporting Apparel Impact Institute’s 
(‘Aii’) Fashion Climate Fund, which aims to 
mobilise $2bn in blended finance to halve 
carbon emissions from the sector by 2030. We 
have leveraged our trade finance expertise to 
provide insights and help inform Aii’s ‘Brand 
Playbook for Financing Decarbonisation’ and the 
‘Landscape and Opportunities to Finance the 
Decarbonisation of India’s Apparel 
Manufacturing Sector’.
Climate Solutions Partnership
Our five-year Climate Solutions Partnership with 
the World Resources Institute, WWF and over 
50 local partners, continues to support naturebased solutions and energy transition in Asia.
Since 2020, $105m in funding has been 
deployed to our NGO partners. The energy 
programmes have engaged companies across 
Asia to help set new standards in climate 
commitments for their industries and mobilised 
finance to support the uptake of renewables. 
The nature programmes supported the Asia 
Sustainable Palm Oil Links programme, focused 
on promoting sustainable palm oil production, 
consumption and trade across Asia, and the 
Nature-based Solutions Accelerator, which 
supported projects to reach investment 
readiness.
Through this partnership, we also launched an 
open-access Environmental Crimes Financial 
Toolkit to help financial institutions detect and 
monitor activities related to environmental and 
financial crimes. The first set of tools focuses on 
commodity-driven deforestation and land 
conversion.
Our just transition approach
The transition to net zero is expected to 
drive social changes on a global scale, 
presenting risks and opportunities for our 
clients and our stakeholders. Our net 
zero transition plan sets out our initial 
approach to incorporating just transition 
considerations. We are taking steps to 
embed just transition principles into our 
client engagement activities, our own 
operations, and our financing decisions.
HSBC Asset Management, in line with 
relevant stewardship activities, 
encourages companies to identify and 
address the impacts of their climate 
strategy on stakeholders, including 
workers, suppliers, and the communities 
in which they operate. This may include 
specific metrics or objectives in relation, 
but not limited to, employee training and 
development, green job creation, 
safeguarding workers’ rights and support 
for affected communities.
We are a founding funder of the Just 
Transition Finance Lab, hosted at the 
LSE’s Grantham Research Institute, 
which aims to accelerate solutions to 
achieve progress on climate and wider 
environmental goals through a peoplecentred approach. Since its launch in 
early 2024, the Lab has produced a range 
of outputs including: mapping just 
transition policies to a set of metrics, 
exploration of the role investors can play 
in facilitating a just transition in India, a 
case study of the coal-to-clean shift in 
Chile, and a detailed examination of the 
financial path to a just transition in the 
critical minerals sector.
Our approach to nature 
Around one third of the emissions reductions 
required to limit global warming in line with 
the Paris Agreement are linked to the land 
use system and nature.
We have been further developing our 
approach to nature, which builds on the 
outline that was set out in our net zero 
transition plan. This includes considering how 
to: understand our exposure to nature; 
manage nature-related risks and impacts; 
support our customers, including financing 
and investing in nature-related solutions; and 
build nature-related skills, data capacities and 
partnerships. 
We are taking steps to embed our approach 
to nature alongside delivery of our net zero 
implementation plans. We continue to test 
and scale approaches to financing and 
investing in biodiversity and nature, which 
has included acting as sole bookrunner and 
structuring bank for an Amazon reforestationlinked outcome bond, the World Bank’s 
largest outcome bond issued to date (see 
page 19). In 2024, starting with our European 
clients, we began including nature-related 
questions in our client transition engagement 
questionnaire. 
Climate Asset Management, HSBC Asset 
Management’s joint venture with climate 
investment and advisory firm Pollination, has 
now raised commitments of more than $1bn 
for natural capital projects around the world, 
and announced the final close of its Natural 
Capital and Nature Based Carbon Funds.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
47
ESG review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Embedding net zero
Financed emissions 
 
TCFD
As part of our ambition to become a net zero 
bank by 2050, we published initial financed 
emissions targets for 2030. As we near the 
mid-point towards our 2030 targets, we have 
begun a review of our interim 2030 financed 
emissions targets and associated policies as 
described on page 15. This forms part of our 
annual net zero transition plan review 
referenced in our 3Q24 earnings release.
Our analysis of financed emissions comprises 
‘on-balance sheet financed emissions’ and 
‘facilitated emissions’, which we distinguish 
where necessary in our reporting. 
Our on-balance sheet financed emissions 
include emissions related to on-balance sheet 
lending, such as project finance and direct 
lending. Our facilitated emissions include 
emissions related to financing we help clients 
to raise through capital markets activities. Our 
analysis covers financing from Global Banking 
and Markets, and Commercial Banking.
Financed emissions link the financing we 
provide to our customers and their activities 
in the real economy, and provide an indication 
of the associated greenhouse gas emissions. 
They form part of our scope 3 emissions, 
which include emissions associated with the 
use of a company’s products and services.
We have set combined on-balance sheet 
financed and facilitated emissions targets for 
two emissions-intensive sectors: oil and gas, 
and power and utilities. We have also set 
targets for on-balance sheet financed 
emissions for the following sectors: cement; 
iron, steel and aluminium; aviation; 
automotive; and thermal coal mining. 
As part of our financial reporting, we present 
the progress for these sectors against our 
published financed emissions baselines and 
targets.
We have set absolute emissions reduction 
targets for the oil and gas, and thermal coal 
mining sectors. For the power and utilities; 
cement; iron, steel and aluminium; aviation; 
and automotive sectors, we have set 
emissions intensity targets that allow us to 
deploy capital towards decarbonisation 
solutions.
Supporting India’s 
transition to a greener 
economy
We acted as sole Export Credit Agency 
(‘ECA’) coordinator and sole green 
structurer for an inaugural $1bn green push 
export finance facility for Reliance 
Industries (‘RIL’), guaranteed by the Italian 
ECA, known as SACE. This was RIL’s first 
ever green loan and will be used to 
primarily finance eligible green projects 
being developed by RIL’s new energy 
business.
As India’s largest private sector company, 
RIL is seeking to address India’s energy 
challenges – affordability, sustainability and 
security – with the aim of bridging the 
green energy divide and supporting clean 
energy infrastructure demand globally. 
RIL’s new energy proposition is aimed at 
creating a manufacturing ecosystem 
including solar photovoltaics, advanced 
energy storage and green chemical value 
chains.
Our approach to financed emissions 
In our approach to assessing our financed 
emissions, our key methodological decisions 
were shaped in line with industry practices 
and standards. We recognise these are still 
developing.
Coverage of our analysis
Our analysis focuses on the most carbonemissive sectors and the parts of the value 
chain where we believe the majority of 
emissions are produced, to help reduce double 
counting of emissions. This is different to the 
scope of sectors within the wholesale 
corporate lending portfolio that we use to 
manage climate risk. These sectors are set out 
on page 221.
By estimating emissions and setting targets 
for customers that directly account for, or 
indirectly influence, the majority of emissions 
in each of the most carbon-emissive sectors, 
we can focus our engagement and resources 
where we believe the potential for change is 
highest. For each sector, our reported 
emissions now typically include all the major 
greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, 
methane and nitrous oxide, among others. 
These are reported as tonnes of CO2 
equivalent (‘tCO2e’).
To calculate annual on-balance sheet financed 
emissions, we follow guidance from the 
Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials 
(‘PCAF’) standard. We use drawn balances as
at 31 December in the year of analysis related 
to wholesale credit and lending, including 
business loans and project finance, as the 
value of finance provided to customers. We 
excluded products that were short term by 
design and typically less than 12 months in 
duration to reduce volatility, having considered 
the PCAF guidance and subject matter expert 
opinions from the business. For facilitated 
emissions we considered all capital market 
transactions in scope for the year of analysis. 
These included debt and equity capital 
markets, and syndicated loans.
 For further details of our financed emissions 
methodology, exclusions, and limitations, see 
our Financed Emissions and Thermal Coal 
Exposures Methodology at www.hsbc.com/whowe-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esgreporting-centre. 
ESG review | Environment 
48
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Financed emissions continued
The chart below shows the scope of our 
financed emissions analysis of the seven 
sectors, including upstream, midstream, and 
downstream activities within each sector. 
The allocation of companies to different parts 
of the value chain is highly dependent on 
expert judgement and data available on 
company revenue streams. As data quality 
improves, this will be further refined.
Sector
Scope of 
emissions
Value chain in scope
Coverage of 
greenhouse 
gases (‘GHGs’)
Oil and gas
1, 2 and 3
Upstream 
(e.g. extraction)
Midstream
(e.g. transport)
Downstream 
(e.g. fuel use)
Integrated/ 
diversified
All GHGs
Power and utilities
1
1 and 2
Upstream (e.g. 
generation)
Midstream
(e.g. transmission and distribution)
Downstream
 (e.g. retail)
Diversified utilities Power generation
All GHGs
Cement
1 and 2
Upstream (e.g. raw 
materials, extraction)
Midstream 
(e.g. clinker and cement manufacturing)
Downstream 
(e.g. construction)
All GHGs
Iron, steel and 
aluminium
1 and 2
Upstream (e.g. raw 
materials, extraction)
Midstream
(e.g. ore to steel)
Downstream 
(e.g. construction)
All GHGs
Aviation
1 for airlines 
3 for aircraft 
lessors
Upstream (e.g. parts 
manufacturers)
Midstream 
(e.g. aircraft manufacturing)
Downstream 
(e.g. airlines and air lessors)
All GHGs
Automotive
1, 2 and 3
Upstream 
(e.g. suppliers)
Midstream 
(e.g. motor vehicle manufacture)
Downstream 
(e.g. retail)
All GHGs
Thermal coal mining
1, 2 and 3
Upstream
(e.g. extraction)
Midstream
(e.g. processing)
Downstream 
(e.g. retail)
All GHGs
Key:
1 The power and utilities value chain has been updated to show diversified utilities power generation as a separate part of the value chain. This has always been 
included in-scope of the power and utilities target.
Setting our targets
Our target-setting approach to date for onbalance sheet financed emissions and 
facilitated emissions, has been to utilise a single 
reference scenario – IEA’s NZE 2021 – to 
underpin both energy supply-related sectors (oil 
and gas; power and utilities; and thermal coal 
mining), and our published targets for demandside sectors in transport (aviation and 
automotive) and heavy industry (cement; and 
iron, steel and aluminium).
Facilitated emissions included in our combined 
metrics are weighted at 33%, in accordance 
with the PCAF standard. To further reduce the 
inherent volatility in facilitated emissions, we 
apply a three-year moving average across 
transactions (i.e. average of 2021, 2022 and 
2023 for the 2023 progress numbers) to track 
progress to our combined target. This means
that transactions facilitated in 2028 and 2029 
will still have an impact on the 2030 progress 
number and will need to be taken into 
consideration as we manage progress towards 
our target. 
Our approach for financed emissions 
accounting does not rely on purchasing credits 
to achieve any financed emissions targets we 
set.
An evolving approach
In the upcoming review of our financed 
emissions targets, we will seek to balance being 
ambitious on net zero while recognising present 
near-term global challenges and the associated 
impact of the transition playing out differently 
across the regions and sectors we serve. In 
doing so, we plan to draw on the latest 
scientific evidence and credible industry-specific 
pathways while, at the same time, maintaining 
our commitment under our 2021 Climate 
Resolution.
Other sector updates
For the agricultural sector, due to ongoing 
data challenges, we are not in a position to 
report our financed emissions or set a target at 
this time. For commercial real estate, we 
continue to work towards outlining our financed 
emissions ambition. For residential real estate, 
we continue to expect to measure and report 
our financed emissions in future disclosures.
Supermarket group serves up sustainability incentives 
across value chain
HSBC UK has collaborated with Asda on its supply chain finance programme for over ten years. In 
September 2024, as part of this ongoing partnership, we acted as the lead arranger for a new 
facility, which offers $190m of financing to Asda’s suppliers on enhanced pricing terms based on a 
supplier’s ESG performance. 
From January 2025, the initiative will extend incentives to over 250 of Asda’s suppliers based on 
their sustainability practices, as assessed by EcoVadis. This initiative showcases how major 
retailers can engage their supply chains to encourage greater transparency and progress towards 
wider sustainability goals.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
49
Included in analysis
ESG review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Financed emissions continued
Data and methodology limitations
Our financed emissions estimates and 
methodological choices are shaped by the 
availability of data for the sectors we analyse. 
We are members of the PCAF, which defines 
and develops greenhouse gas accounting 
standards for financial institutions. Its Global 
GHG Accounting and Reporting Standards for 
Financed Emissions and for Facilitated 
Emissions provide detailed methodological 
guidance to measure and disclose financed 
and facilitated emissions.
– We have found that data quality scores vary 
across the different sectors and years of 
our analysis. While we expect our data 
quality scores to improve over time, as 
companies continue to expand their 
disclosures to meet growing regulatory and 
stakeholder expectations, there may be 
fluctuations within sectors year-on-year, 
and/or differences in the data quality scores 
between sectors due to changes in data 
availability.
– The majority of our clients do not yet report 
the full scope of greenhouse gas emissions 
included in our analysis, in particular scope 
3 emissions at a subsidiary level. In the 
absence of client-reported emissions, we 
estimated emissions using proxies based 
on company production and revenue 
figures. Although we sought to minimise 
the use of non-company-specific data, we 
applied industry averages in our analysis 
where company-specific data was 
unavailable through our third-party datasets. 
As data improves, estimates will be 
replaced with reported figures.
– Third-party datasets that feed into our 
analysis may have up to a two-year lag in 
reported emissions figures, and we are 
working with data providers to help reduce 
this. Mapping external datasets to our 
internal client entities is challenging due to 
complex company ownership structures.
– The methodology and data used to assess 
financed emissions and set targets are new 
and evolving, and we expect industry 
guidance, market practice, and regulations 
to continue to change. As we undertake the 
review of our 2030 financed emissions 
targets, we will use appropriate data 
sources and current methodologies 
available. 
– We remain conscious that the attribution 
factor used in the financed emissions 
calculation is sensitive to changes in drawn 
amounts or market fluctuations, and we 
plan to be transparent around drivers for 
change to portfolio financed emissions 
where possible.
– We calculate sector-level emissions 
intensity metrics using a portfolio-weighted 
approach. Due to data limitations, we are 
unable to obtain production data for all of 
our clients. We therefore calculate an 
emissions intensity figure using the 75th 
percentile of available data points to meet 
this data gap.
– The classification of our clients into sectors 
is performed with inputs from subject 
matter experts, and will also continue to 
evolve with improvements to data and our 
sector classification approach. Our internal 
data on customer groups used to source 
financial exposure and emissions data is 
based on credit and relationship 
management attributes, and is not always 
aligned to the data needed to analyse 
emissions across sector value chains. As 
the sub-sector, and therefore the value 
chain classification, is based on judgement, 
this may be revised as better data becomes 
available. As a consequence, classification 
changes can result in sectoral movement 
year-on-year. Emissions are calculated at a 
counterparty group level, rather than at 
subsidiary level, mainly due to the 
availability of emissions data, but this may 
lead to over-or under-estimation of 
emissions compared with calculation at the 
counterparty level. Companies with multiple 
activities, such as conglomerates with near 
to equal business activity split across 
multiple sectors, are excluded as these can 
have different activities covered by multiple 
sector targets. 
– The operating environment for climate 
analysis and portfolio alignment is maturing. 
We continue to work to improve our data 
management processes. 
 For further details of our financed emissions 
methodology, exclusions, and limitations, see 
our Financed Emissions and Thermal Coal 
Exposures Methodology at www.hsbc.com/whowe-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esgreporting-centre.
Helping to tackle food waste emissions via innovation
Food waste is a growing issue globally with an estimated one-third of all food produced going 
to waste, creating significant methane emissions. Mill, a US-based technology company, 
produces a food recycler for your kitchen that turns food waste into nutrient-rich food 
grounds. These food grounds can be used in composting processes or picked up and 
distributed to farm partners as food for soil or animals. These pathways help to keep food out 
of landfill, reuse resources and reduce emissions.
In August 2024, HSBC Innovation Banking supported Mill by providing $25m of venture debt 
funding following their successful Series C fundraising. The financing supports Mill to continue 
to scale its food-recycler business to consumers across the US.
ESG review | Environment 
50
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Financed emissions continued
Our approach to emissions re-baselines and restatements
The PCAF recommends that financial 
institutions should, in line with the 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value 
Chain (scope 3) Accounting and Reporting 
Standard requirement, establish a 
recalculation policy to ensure consistency, 
comparability and relevance of the reported 
greenhouse gas emissions data over time. 
Our emissions re-baseline and restatement 
policy defines the circumstances for a 
restatement of previously reported emissions 
data and targets, including a re-baseline.
In 2024, we reviewed and enhanced our 
policy by extending the scope to cover 
additional emissions categories, including 
scope 1 and 2 emissions in our own 
operations. We also now include scope or 
boundary changes as a key driver of change. 
HSBC Asset Management is covered by a 
different emissions re-baseline and 
restatement framework as per page 57.
Emissions data and related processes are 
continually evolving. Therefore, we do not 
consider data and process enhancements to 
be a key driver of change. This may change 
over time as data and processes mature. 
When key drivers, in aggregate, breach our 
defined significance thresholds, a 
restatement of previously reported emissions 
data and targets, including where necessary a 
re-baseline, is required.
We expect our policy to evolve with further 
industry guidance.
The table below outlines the key drivers of 
change and what we expect to disclose when 
thresholds are breached.
 
For further details of our emissions re-baseline 
and restatement policy, see our Financed 
Emissions and Thermal Coal Exposures 
Methodology at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reportingcentre.
 
Key drivers of change
What we expect to disclose
Changes to the emissions methodology including those driven by 
changes in industry guidance/regulations
– A revised comparative amount for the restatement period that 
reflects the new information
– The difference between the amount disclosed in the previous 
period and the revised comparative amount 
– The reasons for revising the comparative amount and why the new 
information provides reliable and more relevant information
– The actions being taken to remediate same or similar errors in the 
future
Errors, such as those in the internal application or interpretation of 
methodology, or errors in internal data
Scope or boundary changes, such as acquisitions or divestments, 
and inventory boundary and coverage changes
In 2024, we made the decision to amend the 
approach for prioritising data sources for 
automotive clients to utilise production data 
as opposed to reported third-party data, 
representing a methodological change. This 
change was implemented to include tailpipe 
emissions instead of all scope 3 categories, in 
order to be consistent with the target 
scenario reference pathway and industry 
practice.
For the aviation sector, we restated the 2022 
metrics as a lending product code was 
previously excluded in error; it is now 
included in our analysis.
For the thermal coal mining sector, we rebaselined the 2020 metric due to three 
errors: an incorrect product code exclusion, 
an error in the hierarchy construct of a client, 
and the incorrect inclusion of a non-thermal 
coal project. Methodological changes were 
also applied to align with the refinements to 
our basis of preparation in our reporting.
We are conducting a review of our controls 
for population and product codes, and aim to 
enhance them accordingly.
We have set out in the table below the 
restated metrics for the automotive and 
aviation sectors, and the re-baselined metric 
for the thermal coal mining sector, for 
applicable years where the significance 
threshold was breached. The significance 
threshold was not breached for all other 
sectors, or for scope or boundary changes.
Re-baselines and restatements
Previously Reported
Restated Metrics
Percentage Change
Sector
Reporting metrics
2020
2022
2020
2022
2020
2022
Automotive
On-balance sheet financed - tCO2e/million vkm
216.6
170.1
(21) 
%
On-balance sheet financed - Mt CO2e
5.5
4.1
(25) 
%
Aviation 
On-balance sheet financed - tCO2e/million rpk
86.5
90.2
4 %
On-balance sheet financed - Mt CO2e
2.7
3.5
30 %
Thermal coal mining
On-balance sheet financed - Mt CO2e
 
4.0 
4.7
18 %
IFC and HSBC Asset Management partner to improve 
sustainability in emerging markets
In 2024, International Finance Corporation (‘IFC’), a member of the World Bank Group, and 
HSBC Asset Management (‘HSBC AM’) announced their intention to establish a specialised 
fund vehicle targeting corporate bond issuers in emerging markets, with the aim of increasing 
access to finance and supporting sustainable growth. The fund will be classified as Article 9 
under the EU Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation. 
This announcement furthers collaboration between IFC and HSBC AM, helping to mobilise 
institutional investment in key areas, such as sustainable technologies and social impact in 
emerging markets. IFC has committed to invest up to $100m in the fund, which will support 
an existing HSBC AM global emerging market corporate sustainable bond strategy. 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
51
ESG review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Financed emissions continued
Targets and progress 
We have set out in the table below our 
combined on-balance sheet financed and 
facilitated emissions targets for the oil and 
gas, and power and utilities sectors.
In 2023, applying three-year average values 
weighted at 33%, facilitated emissions for 
the oil and gas sector total 6.5 Mt CO2e, and 
for the power and utilities sector, they total 
346.6 tCO2e/GWh. These values are then 
combined with the on-balance sheet numbers 
for the relevant year to track progress to 
target. We set out the annual figures before 
the application of the three-year average in 
the facilitated emissions table on page 56.
We also set out our defined targets for the 
on-balance sheet financed emissions of the 
following sectors: cement; iron, steel and 
aluminium; aviation; automotive; and thermal 
coal mining. We disclose emissions in 2022 
and 2023 and progress achieved in 2023 
versus baseline for each sector, except for 
the thermal coal mining sector, for which we 
disclose financed emissions figures for 2021 
and 2022. We are continuing to work on our 
2023 and 2024 figures and expect to report 
on these in future disclosures. In 2021, 
thermal coal mining financed emissions 
totalled 1.38 Mt CO2e. In 2022, they were 
down by 69% against the re-baselined 2020 
figure of 4.7 Mt CO2e. 
When assessing the changes from 2019 to 
2023, it is important to emphasise how 
changes to exposure and market fluctuations 
impact yearly updates as we make progress 
towards our interim targets. Movement from 
one year to the next may not reflect future 
trends for the financed emissions of our 
portfolio. 
Sector
1
Baseline
2022
2023
2023 % change 
vs. baseline
2030 target
Unit
2
Target scenario
Combined on-balance sheet financed and facilitated emissions at 33%, with three-year moving average
Oil and gas 
42.6 in 2019
31.9
23.2
 
(46) 
%
 
(34) 
%
Mt CO2e
IEA NZE 2021
Power and utilities
513.4 in 2019
396.8
349.0
 
(32) 
%
138.0
tCO2e/GWh
IEA NZE 2021
On-balance sheet financed emissions
Cement
0.64 in 2019
0.71
0.59
 
(8) 
%
0.46
tCO2e/t cement
IEA NZE 2021
Iron, steel and aluminium
1.8 in 2019
2.5
2.1
 
17 %
1.05 (1.43)
3
tCO2e/t metal
IEA NZE 2021
Aviation
84.0 in 2019
90.2
79.6
 
(5) 
%
63.0 
4
tCO2e/million rpk
IEA NZE 2021
Automotive
191.5 in 2019
170.1
152.4
 
(20) 
%
66.0
tCO2e/million vkm
IEA NZE 2021
Thermal coal mining
4.7 in 2020
1.44
N/A
N/A
(70)%
5
Mt CO2e
IEA NZE 2021
1 Our absolute and intensity emissions metrics and targets are measured based on the drawn exposures of the counterparties in scope for each sector. Emissions 
intensity is a weighted average according to the portfolio weight of each investment, as a proportion of the total portfolio value. For oil and gas; and power and 
utilities, the baseline, progress and target figures represent combined on-balance sheet financed and facilitated emissions. For cement; iron, steel and aluminium; 
aviation; automotive; and thermal coal mining, the baseline, progress and target figures represent on-balance sheet financed emissions. For the aviation and 
automotive sectors, the target figure is unchanged while the 2022 figure represents restated on-balance sheet financed emissions. For thermal coal mining, the 
target is unchanged while the 2020 baseline figure has been re-baselined.
2 For the oil and gas sector, absolute emissions are measured in million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (‘Mt CO2e’); for the power and utilities sector, intensity 
is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per gigawatt hour (‘tCO2e/GWh’); for the cement sector, intensity is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide 
equivalent per tonne of cement (‘tCO2e/t cement’); for the iron, steel and aluminium sector, intensity is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per tonne 
of metal (‘tCO2e/t metal’); for the aviation sector, intensity is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per million revenue passenger kilometres (‘tCO2e/
million rpk’); for the automotive sector, intensity is measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per million vehicle kilometres ('tCO2e/million vkm’); and for the 
thermal coal mining sector, absolute emissions are measured in million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (‘Mt CO2e’).
3 While the iron, steel and aluminium 2030 target is aligned with the IEA NZE 2021 scenario, we also reference the Mission Possible Partnership Technology 
Moratorium scenario, whose 2030 reference range is shown in parentheses. 
4 Our aviation unit includes passenger and cargo tonnes, converted into revenue passenger kilometre (‘rpk‘), to align with our target pathway. This is comparable to 
revenue tonne kilometre ('rtk') using a 100kg per passenger conversion factor as we already include belly and dedicated cargo in our production figures. The 
conversion factor changed from 95kg per passenger used in the baseline disclosure to align with industry practice.
5 The thermal coal mining scope differs from the other sectors. We include solely emissions from thermal coal production and coal power generation, rather than 
the total emissions of a counterparty within a sector, to reflect the thermal coal mining absolute financed emissions reduction target.
 
ESG review | Environment 
52
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Financed emissions continued
We plan to report financed emissions and 
progress against our targets annually, and to 
be transparent in our disclosures about the 
methodologies applied and any challenges or 
dependencies. However, financed emissions 
figures may not be reconcilable or 
comparable year-on-year in future, and 
baselines and targets may require updates or 
revisions as data, methodologies and 
reference scenarios develop. 
Consistent with the PCAF guidance on 
financed emissions accounting, we only 
consider the outstanding drawn financing 
amount given this has a direct link to real 
economy emissions.
A number of clients have material undrawn 
balances that, if drawn, could significantly 
increase the financed emissions related to 
those clients. We expect to assess how to 
manage these exposures on a forwardlooking basis as we progress towards our 
2030 targets. In addition, for the intensitybased sectors, the emissions intensity is 
sensitive to material clients and changes to 
drawn balances year-on-year can therefore 
influence the trend.
We continue to engage with and support our 
clients in their decarbonisation journey by 
providing financing and advisory services.
Oil and gas
For the oil and gas sector, our analysis 
included scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, 
including carbon dioxide and methane, for 
upstream and integrated companies. Our 
baseline and progress figures reflect 
combined on-balance sheet financed and 
facilitated emissions.
We have set a target to reduce absolute 
combined on-balance sheet financed and 
facilitated emissions for our oil and gas 
portfolio by 34% by 2030 relative to our 2019 
baseline. This is consistent with a global 
1.5°C-aligned pathway, as defined by the IEA 
NZE 2021 scenario.
We show in the chart our progress to date 
against our 2030 target. We also indicate the 
2030 figure derived from the updated IEA 
NZE 2024 scenario, which suggests a 30% 
reduction relative to the 2019 baseline.
In 2023, absolute combined on-balance sheet 
financed and facilitated emissions in our 
portfolio decreased by 46% to 23.2 million 
tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (‘Mt 
CO2e’) relative to the 2019 baseline, and by 
27% from 2022 to 2023. The reduction was 
due to divestments and other strategic 
decisions, and temporary factors such as low 
loan drawdown levels, and subdued capital 
markets activity. 
A return to market conditions with clients 
increasing capital markets activity, or other 
factors that could lead to clients drawing 
down existing loans, will lead to increased 
financed emissions in our portfolio. Based on 
Dealogic data, capital markets activity for the 
sector increased by more than 15% in 2024 
compared with 2023. 
Oil and gas 
Mt CO2e
2023 progress 
from baseline
 
(46) 
%
MtCO2e
HSBC sector portfolio emissions
Existing HSBC sector target based on IEA NZE 2021
IEA NZE 2024
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
2030
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
Power and utilities
For the power and utilities sector, our 
analysis included scope 1 and 2 emissions for 
upstream power generation, and diversified 
utilities power generation companies. We 
focused on power generation companies 
because they control sector output, which 
has the most material emissions impact in 
the real economy. Our baseline and progress 
figures reflect combined on-balance sheet 
financed and facilitated emissions.
We target a combined on-balance sheet 
financed and facilitated emissions intensity of 
138 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per 
gigawatt hour (‘tCO2e/GWh’) by 2030. We 
have chosen an intensity-based target as 
electricity demand is expected to more than 
double by 2050, due to both population 
growth and electrification required to
decarbonise mobility, buildings and industry. 
Our target is consistent with a global 1.5°Caligned pathway, as defined by the IEA NZE 
2021 scenario.
We show in the chart our progress to date 
against our 2030 target. We also indicate the 
2030 figure of 194.6 tCO2e/GWh derived 
from the updated IEA NZE 2024 scenario.
In 2023, the combined on-balance sheet 
financed and facilitated emissions intensity in 
our portfolio decreased by 32% to 349.0 
tCO2e/GWh relative to the 2019 baseline, and 
by 12% from 2022 to 2023. This reduction 
was driven by an increase in the financing of 
renewable energy projects and companies, 
and a decrease in the financing of high 
emissions intensity clients.
Power and utilities 
tCO2e/GWh
2023 progress 
from baseline
 
(32) 
%
tCO2e/GWh
HSBC sector portfolio emissions
Existing HSBC sector target based on IEA NZE 2021
IEA NZE 2024
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
2030
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
53
ESG review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Financed emissions continued
Cement
For the cement sector, our analysis included 
scope 1 and 2 emissions for midstream 
companies with clinker and cement 
manufacturing facilities. 
We target an on-balance sheet financed 
emissions intensity of 0.46 tonnes of carbon 
dioxide equivalent per tonne of cement 
(‘tCO2e/t cement’) by 2030, using 2019 as our 
baseline. Our target is consistent with a 
global 1.5°C-aligned pathway, as defined by 
the IEA NZE 2021 scenario.
We show in the chart our progress to date 
against our 2030 target. We also indicate the 
2030 figure of 0.47 tCO2e/t cement derived 
from the updated IEA NZE 2024 scenario.
While some emissions reductions can be 
achieved through energy efficiency, we 
believe that to significantly reduce fuel and 
process emissions from cement 
manufacturing, and to meet our targets, 
large-scale investments are required in new 
production processes and technologies,
including clinker substitution, alternative fuel 
use such as bioenergy, and carbon capture 
use and storage. Carbon capture use and 
storage is a nascent technology and is 
currently applied at around 45 facilities 
worldwide with a capture capacity of roughly 
50 MtCO2 per year. This is short of IEA NZE 
scenarios, which lay out a pathway of around 
1 Gt CO2 per year captured and stored by 
2030. Several cement sector customers are 
making progress in carbon capture use and 
storage and are launching their first carbon 
capture use and storage pilot projects. 
The 2023 emissions intensity of our portfolio, 
at 0.59 tCO2e/t cement, was 8% lower than 
the 2019 baseline. It was also down by 17% 
in 2023 from 2022. The decline in 2023 was 
mainly attributable to improvements in the 
availability of emissions and production data 
across a number of emissions-intensive 
clients. Emissions intensity trends are highly 
sensitive to material client exposures and 
changes to drawn balances year-on-year.
Cement
tCO2e/t cement
2023 progress 
from baseline
 
(8) 
%
tCO2e/t cement
HSBC sector portfolio emissions
Existing HSBC sector target based on IEA NZE 2021
IEA NZE 2024
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
2030
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
Iron, steel and aluminium
For the iron, steel and aluminium sector, we 
covered scope 1 and 2 for midstream iron, 
steel and aluminium production in our 
analysis. We intend to address our coverage 
of aluminium in future disclosures due to the 
low materiality in our portfolio, as well as 
volatility caused by the greater emissions 
intensity of aluminium production, compared 
to iron and steel. 
We target an on-balance sheet financed 
emissions intensity of 1.05 tonnes of carbon 
dioxide equivalent per tonne of metal (‘tCO2e/
t metal’) by 2030, using 2019 as our baseline. 
Our target is consistent with a global 1.5°Caligned pathway for iron and steel, as defined 
by the IEA NZE 2021 scenario. Meeting the 
2030 target will be technologically challenging 
as this is a particularly hard-to-abate sector.
We show in the chart our progress to date 
against our 2030 target. We also indicate the 
2030 figure of 1.29 tCO2e/t metal derived 
from the updated IEA NZE 2024 scenario, and 
of 1.43 tCO2e/t metal from the MPP Tech 
Moratorium scenario. The MPP Tech 
Moratorium scenario confines investments to 
near zero emissions technologies from 2030 
onwards, and assumes no assets are 
prematurely retired. It projects a slower 
transition than IEA NZE scenarios in the near 
term due to the use of different assumptions 
for steel production, steelmaking technology 
mix, steel emissions intensity, and use of 
hydrogen in steelmaking.
The emissions intensity of our portfolio in 
2023 rose by 17% to 2.1 tCO2e/t metal 
against our 2019 baseline, due to aluminium 
sector exposures impacting the overall 
sector’s emissions intensity in 2023, and a 
low baseline figure resulting from a higher 
mix of low emissions-intensive steel clients. 
Emissions intensity dropped by 16% in 2023 
versus 2022 due to the reduced exposure to 
aluminium clients, and a larger mix of low 
emissions-intensive clients.
Iron, steel and aluminium
tCO2e/t metal
2023 progress 
from baseline
 
17 %
tCO2e/t metal
HSBC sector portfolio emissions
Existing HSBC sector target based on IEA NZE 2021
IEA NZE 2024
Mission Possible Partnership (‘MPP’) Tech Moratorium 
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
2030
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
ESG review | Environment 
54
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Financed emissions continued
Aviation
For the aviation sector, we included 
passenger airlines’ scope 1 and aircraft 
lessors‘ scope 3 downstream emissions. We 
excluded military and dedicated cargo flights 
as the emissions intensity of such cargo 
flights is different to that of passenger 
airlines. This approach is in line with industry 
practice to ensure consistency of financed 
emissions measurement and target setting. 
We target an on-balance sheet financed 
emissions intensity of 63 tonnes of carbon 
dioxide equivalent per million revenue 
passenger kilometres (‘tCO2e/million rpk’) by 
2030, using 2019 as our baseline. Our target 
is consistent with a global 1.5°C-aligned 
pathway, as defined by the IEA NZE 2021 
scenario.
We show in the chart our progress to date 
against our 2030 target. We also indicate the 
2030 figure of 70.3 tCO2e/million rpk derived 
from the updated IEA NZE 2024 scenario. 
To meet our target, we believe the sector 
needs significant policy support, investments 
in alternative fuels, such as sustainable 
aviation fuel, and new efficient aircraft to
reduce emissions. The adoption of 
sustainable aviation fuel is in its infancy, 
currently accounting for an estimated 0.3% of 
global jet fuel production. Sustainable aviation 
fuel use needs to increase to 15% by 2030 to 
be in line with the IEA NZE 2021. This 
requires a significant ramp-up of investment 
in production capacity and supportive policies, 
such as fuel taxes and low carbon fuel 
standards. 
The industry is also adopting the unit of 
revenue tonne kilometre (‘rtk’) to take into 
account the transport of cargo for airlines inscope of the target. We plan to consider this 
unit change to rtk in future disclosures to 
better reflect the industry standard. We 
already include passenger and cargo tonnes 
in our production figures.
In 2023, the emissions intensity of our 
portfolio fell by 5% to 79.6 tCO2e/million rpk 
relative to the 2019 baseline and was down 
by 12% from the 2022 restated emissions 
intensity. This decline was largely driven by 
improved data quality, higher exposure to 
lower emissions-intensive airlines compared 
with the sector average, and improved 
operational efficiency with the return to preCovid air traffic activity levels.
 
Aviation
tCO2e/million rpk
2023 progress 
from baseline
 
(5) 
%
tCO2e/million rpk
HSBC sector portfolio emissions
Existing HSBC sector target based on IEA NZE 2021
IEA NZE 2024
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
2030
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
Automotive
For the automotive sector, we looked at 
scopes 1 and 2 for midstream manufacturing 
of vehicles, and scope 3 for tank-to-wheel 
exhaust pipe emissions for light-duty 
vehicles. We excluded heavy-duty vehicles 
from our analysis as the target pathway 
derived from the IEA excludes them, as they 
have a different decarbonisation pathway 
relative to light-duty vehicles. This approach 
reflects a change from previous disclosures 
to only include tailpipe emissions instead of 
all scope 3 categories, in order to be 
consistent with the target scenario reference 
pathway and industry practice. We will 
consider including heavy-duty vehicle 
manufacturers as well as heavy-duty vehicle 
production at a later stage of our analysis, as 
data and methodologies develop. 
We target an on-balance sheet financed 
emissions intensity of 66 tonnes of carbon 
dioxide equivalent per million vehicle 
kilometres (‘tCO2e/million vkm’) by 2030 
using 2019 as our baseline. This is in line with 
a global 1.5°C-aligned pathway, as defined by 
the IEA NZE 2021 scenario, modified to 
match the share of new in-year vehicle sales 
for light-duty vehicles.
We show in the chart our progress to date 
against our 2030 target. We also indicate the 
2030 figure of 66.2 tCO2e/million vkm derived 
from the updated IEA NZE 2024 scenario, 
which remains close to the 2030 target figure 
of 66.0 under the 2021 scenario.
Meeting our target is heavily dependent on 
the share of new electric vehicle sales our 
clients will achieve in 2030, including battery 
and plug-in electric vehicles. BloombergNEF 
estimates that the electric vehicle share of 
sales in 2024 exceeded 20%, however this is 
below the 27% implied by the IEA NZE 2021 
scenario based on HSBC analysis.
Achieving our 2030 financed emissions target 
will be challenging unless there is a strong 
acceleration in the share of electric vehicle 
sales. This will require large-scale 
investments in new electric vehicle and 
battery manufacturing plants, alongside 
widespread charging infrastructure, and 
government policies to support electric 
vehicles.
The 2023 emissions intensity of our portfolio 
dropped by 20% to 152.4 tCO2e/million vkm 
against our 2019 baseline, and by 10% 
versus the restated emissions intensity of our 
portfolio for 2022, which excludes nontailpipe scope 3 emissions. The decline 
against baseline was driven by changes in our 
loan book resulting primarily from credit-led 
business decisions. From 2022 to 2023, the 
reduction was driven by a portfolio mix with 
lower emissions intensity clients, and lower 
exposures to carbon-intensive clients.
Automotive
tCO2e/million vkm
2023 progress 
from baseline
 
(20) 
%
tCO2e/million vkm
HSBC sector portfolio emissions
Existing HSBC sector target based on IEA NZE 2021
IEA NZE 2024
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
2030
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
55
ESG review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Financed emissions continued
Thermal coal mining
For the thermal coal mining sector, our 
analysis focused on scope 1, 2 and 3 
emissions in upstream companies, including 
those involved in extraction. When calculating 
our financed emissions from thermal coal 
mining, we focused on thermal coal 
extraction and processing companies, and 
diversified mining companies. The majority of 
our reported financed emissions relate to 
scope 3 emissions associated with coal 
mining, representing financing provided to 
large conglomerates that own diversified 
business interests including coal.
We have set a target to reduce our absolute onbalance sheet financed emissions by 70% by 
2030, relative to the re-baselined 2020 figure of 
4.7 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent 
(‘Mt CO2e’). We used 2020 as a baseline to align 
with the baseline used for our drawn balance 
exposure targets in our thermal coal phase-out 
policy. Our target is consistent with a global 
1.5°C-aligned pathway, as defined by the IEA 
NZE 2021 scenario.
We show in the chart our progress to date 
against our 2030 target. We also indicate the 
2030 figure of 2.7 Mt CO2e derived from the 
updated IEA NZE 2024 scenario, which 
suggests a 42% reduction relative to the rebaselined 2020 figure.
In 2021, absolute on-balance sheet financed 
emissions decreased by 71% to 1.38 Mt 
CO2e relative to the re-baselined 2020 figure. 
In 2022, the absolute on-balance sheet 
financed emissions of our portfolio decreased 
by 69% to 1.44 Mt CO2e relative to the rebaselined 2020 figure, and they rose by 4% 
from 2021 to 2022. The reduction from the 
2020 re-baselined figure was due to strategic 
decisions and temporary factors, such as low 
loan drawdown levels. 
A return to normal market conditions with 
clients drawing down existing loans will lead 
to increased financed emissions in our 
portfolio. 
Thermal coal mining
Mt CO2e
2022 progress 
from baseline
 
(69) 
%
Mt CO2e
HSBC sector portfolio emissions
Existing HSBC sector target based on IEA NZE 2021
IEA NZE 2024
2019 2020 2021 2022
2030
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
On-balance sheet financed emissions
The table below summarises the results of our assessment of on-balance sheet financed emissions using 2022 and 2023 data. For thermal coal 
mining, we disclosed in 2023 our 2020 baseline, which has been re-baselined as described on page 51, and we now present figures for 2021 
and 2022. The PCAF data quality scores across most sectors improved in 2023 due to better data availability. 
On-balance sheet financed emissions – wholesale credit lending and project finance
1,2
Sector
Year
Scope 1–2 
(Mt CO2e)
Scope 3 
(Mt CO2e)
Emissions 
intensity
PCAF data quality score
3
Scope 1 and 2
Scope 3
Oil and gas
2022
1.3
16.2
N/A
3.2
3.2
2023†
1.6
15.2
N/A
2.4
2.7
Power and utilities
2022
7.6
N/A
401.7
3.3
N/A
2023†
7.3
N/A
349.6
3.1
N/A
Cement
2022
4.5
N/A
0.71
2.9
N/A
2023†
6.3
N/A
0.59
2.3
N/A
Iron, steel and aluminium
2022
2.7
N/A
2.5
3.0
N/A
2023†
1.8
N/A
2.1
2.9
N/A
Aviation
2022
3.3
0.15
90.2
3.2
2.4
2023†
2.6
0.21
79.6
3.1
2.6
Automotive
2022
 
0.11 
4.0
170.1
2.7
3.4
2023†
0.12
6.0
152.4
2.2
3.2
Thermal coal mining
2021†
0.05
1.33
N/A
3.1
3.1
2022†
0.07
1.37
N/A
3.1
3.1
Facilitated emissions
The table below summarises the results of our assessment of facilitated emissions using 2022 and 2023 data for the oil and gas, and the power 
and utilities sectors.
Applying a 100% weighting, the oil and gas values for scope 1 to 3 emissions decreased from 15.2 Mt CO2e in 2022 to 9.0 Mt CO2e in 2023. 
For the power and utilities sector, the values for scope 1 and 2 emissions rose from 3.8 Mt CO2e in 2022 to 4.6 Mt CO2e in 2023. For all 100%weighted facilitated values, please refer to the ESG Data Pack4.
Facilitated emissions – ECM, DCM and syndicated loans (33% weighting)
Sector
Year
4
Scope 1-2 
(Mt CO2e)
Scope 3 
(Mt CO2e)
Emissions 
intensity
PCAF Data quality score
3
Scope 1 and 2
Scope 3
Oil and gas
2022
0.36
4.7
N/A
3.3
3.3
2023†
0.27
2.7
N/A
2.1
2.5
Power and utilities
2022
1.2
N/A
358.7
2.9
N/A
2023†
1.5
N/A
322.2
2.6
N/A
1 The total amount of short-term finance excluded for the thermal coal mining sector was 0.04% and 0.1% of total loans and advances to customers at 31 December 2021 
and 31 December 2022 respectively; in 2023, for all other sectors, it was 0.7% of total loans and advances to customers at 31 December 2023.
2 The total loans and advances analysed for the thermal coal mining sector were 0.1% of total loans and advances to customers at 31 December 2021 and 31 December 
2022, respectively. For all other sectors in 2023, the total loans and advances analysed were 2.7% of total loans and advances to customers at 31 December 2023. The 
total loans and advances analysed for the purpose of the financed emissions calculation and reporting have not been adjusted for assets held for sale.
3 PCAF scores where 1 is high and 5 is low. This is a weighted average score based on financing for on-balance sheet financed emissions.
4 The total capital markets activity analysed applying a 100% weighting in 2023 was $10.4.bn, representing 3.3% of capital markets activity at 31 December 2023.
† Data is subject to independent third-party limited assurance in accordance with ISAE 3000 / ISAE 3410. For further details, see our Financed Emissions and Thermal 
Coal Exposures Methodology and the independent third-party limited assurance report, which are available at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsiblebusiness/esg-reporting-centre.
ESG review | Environment 
56
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Financed emissions continued
Reducing emissions in our assets under management 
HSBC Asset Management continues to work 
towards its interim target1 of reducing scope 1 
and 2 financed emissions intensity by 58% 
between 2019 and 2030 for its in scope assets 
under management (AUM), consisting of listed 
equities and corporate fixed income managed 
within its major investment hubs. As of 31 
December 2019, in scope assets amounted to 
$193.9bn, equating to 38% of global AUM.
2019 re-baselined metrics
In 2024, we improved our methodology for 
calculating financed emissions intensity, 
including a revised mapping logic for issuers’ 
carbon intensity and EVIC (enterprise value 
including cash) data. We have re-baselined our 
2019 intensity figure due to an error in the data 
mapping and it is now 124 tCO2e/M$ invested 
versus 131 tCO2e/M$ invested reported in the 
Annual Report and Accounts 2022, 
representing a decrease of 5.6%.
The Partnership for Carbon Accounting 
Financials (PCAF)2 recommends that financial 
institutions should, in line with the 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Value 
Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting 
Standard requirement, establish a restatement 
policy to ensure consistency, comparability 
and relevance of the reported greenhouse gas 
emissions data over time. HSBC Asset 
Management has defined an internal financed 
emissions re-baseline and restatement 
framework which adapts HSBC Group’s 
approach and defines relevant circumstances 
for HSBC Asset Management.
Our financed emissions metrics
As at 31 December 2023, the scope 1 and 2 
financed emissions intensity of HSBC Asset 
Management’s in scope assets stood at 69.8 
tCO2e/M$ invested. The PCAF data quality 
score for our 31 December 2023 financed 
emissions intensity was 2.63.
Reported metrics
3
 2019
2023
Unit
Scope 1 and 2 financed emissions intensity
124.0*
69.8 tCO2e/M$ invested
AUM in scope
193.9
 
223.0 
Billions $
PCAF Data Quality Score
2.63
 
2.63 
*indicates that this metric has been re-baselined
1 Our targets remain subject to consultation with stakeholders including investors and fund boards on whose behalf we manage the assets. The 58% target is based 
on assumptions for financial markets and other data, including the IEA Net Zero emissions by 2050 scenario and its underlying activity growth assumptions. 
Carbon emissions intensity is measured as tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per million USD invested (tCO2e/M$ invested), where emissions are scaled by 
enterprise values including cash.
2 PCAF defines and develops greenhouse gas accounting standards for financial institutions. Its Global GHG Accounting and Reporting Standard for Financed 
Emissions provides detailed methodological guidance to measure and disclose financed emissions. PCAF Standards are available at: https://
carbonaccountingfinancials.com/standard. 
3 The re-baselined 2019 financed emissions intensity metric, and 2023 metrics were subject to independent third-party limited assurance in accordance with the 
International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’, and 
with respect to the greenhouse emissions, in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410 ‘Assurance Engagements on 
Greenhouse Gas Statements’, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. For the independent third-party’s limited assurance report, see 
http://www.assetmanagement.hsbc.com/net-zero. The methodology used is available at: http://www.assetmanagement.hsbc.co.uk/-/media/files/attachments/
common/creating-a-new-climate-for-change/financed-emissions-disclosures-reporting-criteria.pdf.
Boosting the offshore wind industry in the UK 
SeAH Wind Ltd is developing a new offshore wind technology manufacturing facility in 
Teesside, North-East England. The factory is seeking to make a significant contribution to the 
offshore wind industry and play an important role in addressing the growing global demand for 
renewable energy. 
Building on previous financing in 2023, we acted as mandated lead arranger and lender for a 
$282m loan to SeAH Wind Ltd, with guarantees provided by UK Export Finance and the Korea 
Trade Insurance Corporation, bringing total financing arranged by HSBC for the project to 
$740m. 
The proceeds will be used to support the ongoing construction and expansion of the new UK 
manufacturing facility, helping the company grow through its extended product range for 
offshore wind.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
57
ESG review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Net zero in our own operations TCFD
As described on page 15, we have revisited 
our ambition to achieve net zero in our own 
operations and supply chain by 2030 and are 
now focused on actions to cut emissions 
across these areas as part of our overall 
ambition to become net zero by 2050. 
Reduce, replace and remove
Our guiding approach is, and will continue to 
be to reduce, replace and remove emissions 
from our own operations and supply chain. 
We plan to first focus on reducing carbon 
emissions from consumption, and then 
replace remaining emissions with low-carbon 
alternatives in line with the Paris Agreement. 
We will reduce emissions through the 
purchase of 100% renewables and plan to 
add investments in sustainable aviation fuel 
to replace traditional fuel and reduce 
emissions from our travel over time. 
Altogether, across our operations, business 
travel and supply chain, we expect to achieve 
a reduction of around 40% in emissions by 
2030. In line with current guidance, we 
expect to only use carbon credits to remove 
emissions when it is not possible to directly 
reduce or replace. However, recognising the 
importance of high quality carbon removals in 
limiting global temperature rises, we have 
started to explore some high integrity carbon 
removal projects. 
Our energy consumption
In 2024 we achieved a 30.5% reduction in 
our energy consumption compared with 2019 
(2023: 26.3%).This has been achieved 
through optimising the use of our real estate 
portfolio and carrying out a reduction in our 
office space and data centres. We continue 
to optimise our assets to ensure greater 
efficiency and capitalise on new energy 
technologies. In 2024 we increased our 
purchase of electricity from renewable 
sources to 75.4% from 58.4% in 2023. This 
included increasing our coverage of green 
tariffs in India and mainland China. 
Renewable electricity can help unlock our 
emissions reduction potential, and we aim to 
achieve 100% renewable electricity across 
our own operations by 2030.
Our biggest challenge continues to be the 
limited availability of power purchase 
agreements and green tariffs in some of our 
markets due to regulations. We continue to 
expand our network of experts in the 
renewables space to help us identify 
opportunities globally.
Business travel
We have analysed our travel patterns to 
identify areas where we can continue to 
reduce emissions. For example, we have 
introduced internal regional reduction targets 
and emission information at the point of 
booking to encourage ownership and 
flexibility in decision making.
Engaging with our supply chain 
Our supply chain contributes c.81% of our 
operational emissions and is the area in 
which we face the most significant 
decarbonisation challenge. When we set our 
ambition in 2020, we did so without detailed 
supply chain data.
It has become clear that progress in reducing 
emissions in our supply chain is proving 
slower than we anticipated, mainly driven by 
the slower pace of the transition across the 
real economy. Many suppliers are still in the 
early phase of their decarbonisation journey, 
do not have sufficient insight into their own 
emissions footprint, and have not set 
decarbonisation targets. We have stepped up 
targeted efforts to support decarbonisation 
across our supply chain.
We aim to deepen collaboration with 
suppliers and increase our focus on those 
without public disclosures or emissions 
reduction plans, supporting them through 
education and incentivisation. We will build 
partnerships with larger suppliers to drive 
change in shared supply chains through 
scaled solutions, including through industry 
initiatives.
In 2024 we incorporated an additional supply 
chain data source to complement data from 
CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project). 
We continue to improve the measurement, 
quality and reporting of our supply chain 
emissions data to generate insights to drive 
targeted reduction activities. We have 
engaged with our 300 highest-emitting 
suppliers to collaborate and identify 
emissions reduction opportunities based on 
supplier maturity levels.
In October 2024 we convened our first 
Supply Chain Decarbonisation Day to facilitate 
in-depth discussion and the development of 
joint action plans with some of our largest 
suppliers in the technology, professional 
services and real estate sectors, to help drive 
emissions reduction. In 2025, we will hold a 
similar event with different suppliers. 
Focus on natural resources
We aim to be a responsible consumer of 
natural resources across our operations and 
supply chain. Wherever possible, through our 
procurement choices, design and 
construction, or operations, we aim to protect 
the environment and mitigate our impact on 
the depletion of natural resources. Our main 
focus areas are waste, paper and sustainable 
diets. 
Our presence in environmentally sensitive 
areas
Our global portfolio of buildings supports 
customers and communities in areas that 
may be of high or very high water stress, and/
or protected areas of biodiversity.
About 50% of our global offices, branches 
and data centres are located mainly in urban 
or city centre locations with large, 
concentrated populations. These areas have 
been identified as being subject to high and 
very high water stress, accounting for 49% of 
our annual water consumption and about 
0.8% are in protected areas of biodiversity. 
We have implemented consumption 
reduction measures, including installation of 
water efficient taps, flow restrictors, autotaps and low or zero flush sanitary fittings.
Our environmental and sustainability management policies
Our buildings policy recognises that regulatory and environmental requirements vary across 
geographies and may include environmental certification. The policy is supported by Corporate 
Services procedures on environmental and sustainability management, seeking to ensure that 
HSBC’s properties continually reduce their overall direct impact on the environment. 
Detailed design considerations documented in our global engineering standards aim to reduce or 
avoid depletion of critical resources, such as energy, water, land and raw materials. Suppliers are 
required to comply with our Supplier Code of Conduct and have in place environmental policies 
appropriate to the size and nature of their operations to reduce environmental impacts. 
ESG review | Environment 
58
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Net zero in our own operations continued
2024 Emissions performance
We are making progress towards our updated 
2050 net zero ambition. In 2024 we achieved a 
reduction in absolute operational greenhouse 
gas emissions (energy and business travel) of 
66.1% from our 2019 baseline. Overall, 
including supply chain emissions, we achieved a 
30.7% reduction against 2019 and 5.5% 
compared with 2023.
Emissions from our energy 
We are currently on track to reduce our scope 1 
and 2 emissions by more than 90% by 2030 
compared with our 2019 baseline. In 2024, we 
reduced these emissions (including energy and 
road fleet) to 98,785 tonnes CO2e, representing 
a 76.2% reduction from our 2019 baseline and a 
46.3% reduction from 2023, helped by further 
efficiency measures and portfolio reductions, and 
an increase in renewable electricity procurement 
to 75.4%, up from 58.4% in 2023.
Emissions from travel
We reduced our emissions from scope 3 
business travel by 50.8% compared with 
2019 with travel volumes remaining well 
below pre-pandemic levels, although 
emissions increased by 22.6% compared 
with 2023 as travel behaviours normalise 
gradually across the bank.
Emissions from our supply chain
In 2024, we reduced our supply chain emissions 
by 8.4% against the restated 2019 baseline 
emissions, while compared with 2023, they 
remained relatively stable, with a small reduction 
of 1.0%. This was mainly driven by suppliers 
providing real estate-related services and financial 
services, while emissions from suppliers of 
technology-related goods and services have 
increased, due to an increase in their investments 
(e.g. data centres), growth of new services (e.g. 
cloud and AI) and increase in our spend.
In 2024 we also expanded the calculation scope 
by including two additional markets with third 
party spend. We continue to widen our 
reporting as more emissions and spend data are 
added to the procurement scope.
Emissions calculations approach
Our emissions report adheres to the 
Greenhouse Gas (‘GHG’) Protocol, which 
incorporates the scope 2 market-based 
emissions methodology. We report GHG 
emissions associated with the energy used in 
our premises and employees’ business travel 
and our supply chain in tonnes of CO2 
equivalent. As a financial services organisation, 
carbon dioxide is the main type of GHG 
applicable to our operations, however, our 
current reporting also incorporates methane and 
nitrous oxide for completeness, although 
deemed immaterial.
Based on our operational control boundary, in 
2024 we collected data on energy use and 
business travel for our operations in 34 countries 
and territories out of the 58 markets we operate 
in, which accounted for approximately 97.7% of 
our full-time equivalent staff (‘FTEs’). To estimate 
the emissions of our operations in entities where 
we have operational control and a small 
presence, we scale up the emissions to 100%.
We apply reviewed and updated emission uplift 
rates to reflect uncertainty concerning the 
quality and coverage of emission measurement 
and estimation. This approach is consistent with 
both the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 
Change’s Good Practice Guidance and 
Uncertainty Management in National 
Greenhouse Gas Inventories and our internal 
analysis. 
Our calculation methodology for supply chain 
emissions follows the spend-based method 
under the GHG protocol; a combination of 
supplier emissions data and industry averages. 
We source actual data via CDP, or direct 
engagement with suppliers, and in the absence 
of this we use estimations from a new data 
provider and then industry average carbon 
intensities from CDP to estimate supply chain 
emissions.
As more of our suppliers report their emissions, 
we should be able to include more accurate data 
and fewer industry averages in the calculation. 
We have applied a data quality score to the 
sources of data we used to determine 
counterparty emissions. For further details, see 
our GHG Reporting Guidance at 
www.hsbc.com/esg
In 2024 we conducted a materiality 
assessment on upstream scope 3 categories, 
and we have identified categories 1 
(purchased goods and services), 2 (capital 
goods), and 6 (business travel) as material.
Our approach to re-baselines and 
restatements
We re-baselined our 2019 and restated our 2023 
supply chain metrics in line with our emissions 
re-baseline and restatement policy (see page 
51). As referenced above, in 2024, we made the 
decision to amend the methodology. We also 
identified an error in the mapping of industry 
averages. In addition, we have identified an 
error in our 2019 metric disclosed in our ARA 
2023 for total energy consumption, which we 
have now restated.
We are conducting a review of our controls 
related to these items and aim to enhance 
them accordingly.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
59
Energy and travel greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes CO2e
3
2024
2023 2019 baseline
Scope 1
1
Ä
15,025
16,918
22,066
Scope 2 (market-based)
1
Ä
83,760
167,174
392,270
Scope 3
~
1,127,909
1,113,498
1,356,631
 Category 1: Purchased goods and services
1,2
Ä
866,873
880,494
1,033,972
 Category 2: Capital goods
1,2
~
127,158
123,763
50,651
 Category 6: Business travel
1
~
133,878
109,241
272,008
Total
Ä
1,226,693
1,297,590
1,770,967
Included Scope 1 and 2 of UK
Ä
5,887
5,909
10,432
1 Data in 2024 is subject to an independent third-party limited assurance in accordance with the 
International Standard on Assurance engagements 3410 (Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse 
Gas Statements). For further details, see GHG Reporting Guidance 2024 and third-party limited 
assurance report at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esg-reporting-centre. In 
respect of data in 2019 and 2023, see our relevant Annual Report and Accounts.
2 Supply chain emissions are calculated using a combination of supplier emissions data and industry 
average emissions factors. A data quality score is applied to this calculation where 1 is high and 4 is 
low, based on the quality of emissions data. This is a weighted average score based on HSBC 
supplier spend. Data quality scores can be found in the ESG Data Pack.
3 Data is based on the 12-month period to 30 September.
 For further details of our methodologies, our independent third-party limited assurance reports and 
relevant environment key facts, see our ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg. 
Greenhouse gas emissions in tonnes CO2e 
per FTE
Energy consumption in kWh in 000s
2024
2023
2019
2024
2023
2019
Scope 1, 2 and 
3 (Category 6) Ä
1.1
1.3
2.9
Total Ä 728,890
772,736 
1,049,072 
Scope 1, 2 and 
3 (Category 1, 2 
and 6)
Ä
5.7
5.9
7.8
UK only Ä 206,028
209,939 281,271 
Revisions
Reporting 
metrics
Previously 
reported
Restated metrics
Percentage 
change
2019
2023
2019
2023
2019 2023
Category 1: 
Purchased Goods and 
Services
tonnes CO2e
 829,635 859,256 
1,033,972 
880,494 
 
25 %
 
2 %
Category 2: Capital 
Goods
tonnes CO2e
 37,617 121,783 
50,651 
123,763 
 
35 %
 
2 %
Total Supply chain
tonnes CO2e
 867,252 981,039 
1,084,623 1,004,257 
 
25 %
 
2 %
Energy consumption
kWh in 000s
 913,556 
n/a 
1,049,072 
n/a
 
15 %
n/a
ESG review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Managing climate risk TCFD
Climate risk relates to the financial and nonfinancial impacts that may arise as a result of 
climate change and the move to a net zero 
economy. We manage climate risk across all 
our businesses and are incorporating climate 
considerations within our traditional risk types 
in line with our Group-wide risk management 
framework.
Our material exposure to climate risk relates 
to wholesale and retail client financing activity 
within our banking portfolio. We are also 
exposed to climate risk in relation to asset 
ownership by our insurance business and 
employee pension plans. Our clients are 
exposed to climate-related investment risk in 
our asset management business. 
In the table below, we set out our duties to 
our stakeholders in our four most material 
roles.
 For further details of our approach to climate 
risk, see ‘ESG risk’ on page 133 and ‘Climate 
risk’ on page 219.
Banking 
We manage the climate risk in our 
banking portfolios through our risk 
appetite and policies for financial 
and non-financial risks. 
Employee pensions
Our pension plans have fiduciaries 
to manage climate risk in line with 
their duties towards members 
under local regulatory 
requirements.
Asset management 
Climate risk management is a key 
feature of our investment decision 
making and portfolio management 
approach.
Insurance
We consider climate risk in the 
management of our shareholder 
and policyholder portfolio of 
assets.
Climate risk
This enables us to identify 
opportunities to support our 
customers, while continuing to 
meet stakeholder expectations.
 
We monitor climate risk exposure 
internally for our largest plans 
based on asset sector allocation 
and carbon emissions data where 
available. 
We also engage with companies 
on topics related to climate 
change.
ESG factors are incorporated into 
investment analysis to evaluate 
climate risk impacts, as well as 
the ongoing monitoring during the 
investment cycle.
Banking
Our banking business is well positioned to 
support our customers managing their own 
climate risk through financing. For our most 
material wholesale customers, we use our 
transition engagement questionnaire to 
understand clients’ climate strategies and 
risks. We have set out a suite of policies to 
guide our management of climate risk. We 
continue to develop our climate risk appetite 
and metrics to help manage climate 
exposures in our wholesale and retail 
portfolios. We use climate scenario analysis 
to gain insights into the long-term effects of 
transition and physical risks across our 
wholesale and retail portfolios (for further 
details, see page 223). 
Asset management
HSBC Asset Management recognises that 
climate-related risks may impact the 
operational and financial performance of 
investee companies. The impact of these 
risks will vary depending on characteristics 
such as asset class, sector, business model 
and geography. HSBC Asset Management 
continues to integrate climate analysis into its 
actively managed product offerings and seeks 
to assess climate-related risks that could 
impact investment performance, where 
applicable and relevant.
As part of its stewardship activities, HSBC 
Asset Management engages on climate 
change issues with investee companies on a 
priority list, as defined in its Stewardship 
Plan. HSBC Asset Management makes 
independent engagement decisions in the 
interests of its clients. 
Employee pensions 
The Trustee of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension 
Scheme (‘the Scheme’), our largest plan with 
$34bn of assets under management, aims to 
achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions 
across its defined benefit and defined 
contribution assets by 2050. To help achieve 
this, it is targeting an interim emissions 
reduction of 50% by 2030, from 2019 levels, 
for its equity and corporate bond mandates. 
This commitment was made in the context of 
wider efforts to manage the impact of climate 
change on the Scheme’s investments and 
the consequent impact on the financial 
interests of members. 
The Scheme reports its carbon emissions for 
its equity and corporate bond mandates in its 
annual TCFD Report and will seek to widen 
the coverage of its assessment and reporting 
over time. In line with the Trustee’s 
commitment to good stewardship, the 
Trustee engages its asset managers to 
ensure that financially material ESG risks are 
explicitly considered in the investment 
process. 
Insurance 
In 2024, our Insurance business enhanced 
our stress testing modelling capability to 
assess the solvency resilience of our 
Insurance entities under prescribed climate 
scenarios. 
 For further details of the HSBC Asset 
Management’s Stewardship Plan, see: 
www.assetmanagement.hsbc.co.uk/en/
institutional-investor/about-us/responsibleinvesting/-/media/files/attachments/uk/policies/
stewardship-plan-uk.pdf
 For further details of the HSBC Bank (UK) 
Pension Scheme’s annual TCFD statements and 
UK Stewardship Code submission, see https://
futurefocus.staff.hsbc.co.uk/active-dc/
information-centre/search-documents
ESG review | Environment 
60
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Sustainability risk policies TCFD
Our sustainability risk policies form part of our 
broader risk management framework and are 
important mechanisms for managing risks, 
including delivering our net zero ambition. 
These policies focus on mitigating 
reputational, credit, legal and other risks 
related to our customers’ environmental and 
social impacts. 
Our policies
Our sustainability risk policies comprise our 
core net zero-aligned policies – thermal coal 
phase-out and energy – and our broader 
sustainability risk policies covering: 
agricultural commodities, forestry, mining and 
metals, and World Heritage Sites and 
Ramsar-designated wetlands. We also apply 
the Equator Principles when financing 
relevant projects. 
These policies aim to provide clear signals to 
our customers on our risk appetite for certain 
activities.
We continue to review policy implementation 
as we apply our sustainability risk policies in 
practice, and our operationalisation of such 
policies continues to be enhanced. We take a 
risk-based approach when identifying 
transactions and clients to which our 
sustainability risk policies apply and, where 
relevant, when reporting on relevant 
exposures, adopting approaches 
proportionate to risk and materiality. This 
helps to focus our efforts on areas where we 
believe we can help drive meaningful change, 
while taking into account experience from 
policy implementation over time. 
We regularly review our policies, 
incorporating feedback and building on 
experience from policy implementation over 
time. We have begun a review of our interim 
financed emissions targets and associated 
policies as part of the annual review of our 
net zero transition plan that we referenced in 
our 3Q24 earnings release in October.
For clients in scope of our sustainability risk 
policies, where we identify activities that 
could cause material negative impacts, we 
expect clients to demonstrate that they are 
identifying and mitigating risks responsibly 
and will look to take required actions as 
outlined in our policies. This may, as 
appropriate, include conducting enhanced 
due diligence or applying financing 
restrictions. Such instances may require 
additional review and approval by our 
sustainability risk specialists and risk 
committees.
 For further details of how we manage 
sustainability risk, as well as our full policies, see 
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-andresponsible-business/managing-risk/
sustainability-risk
Governance and implementation
Our Group Risk and Compliance function has 
specialists who review and support 
implementation of our sustainability risk 
policies. Our relationship managers are 
primarily responsible for assessing relevant 
considerations under our risk management 
framework, including whether our clients may 
be in scope of applicable sustainability risk 
policies. They are supported by sustainability 
risk managers for management of risks as 
outlined in the policies. Where considered 
appropriate, policy matters are escalated to 
relevant governance committees.
Oversight of the development and 
implementation of policies is the 
responsibility of relevant governance 
committees comprising senior members of 
the Group Risk and Compliance function and 
global businesses.
Biodiversity and natural capital-related 
policies
Our sustainability risk policies impose 
restrictions on certain financing activities that 
may have material negative impacts on 
nature. Our forestry and agricultural 
commodities policies focus specifically on the 
upstream impacts of key agricultural 
commodities including palm oil, timber, soy 
and cattle. We also require palm oil 
customers to obtain certification under the 
Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil.
Our energy policy
Our energy policy covers the broader energy 
system, including upstream oil and gas, fossil 
fuel power generation, hydrogen, renewables 
and hydropower, nuclear, biomass and 
waste-to-energy sectors. 
The policy seeks to balance three objectives: 
driving down global greenhouse gas 
emissions; enabling an orderly transition that 
builds resilience in the long term; and 
supporting a just and affordable transition, 
recognising the local realities in all the 
communities we serve.
The energy policy was first published in 
December 2022, and is reviewed annually, 
with the most recent update in February 
2025.
 For further details of our oil and gas, and power 
and utilities financed emissions targets, see the 
'Targets and progress’ section in ‘Financed 
emissions on page 52.
 For further details of our energy policy, see 
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-andresponsible-business/managing-risk/
sustainability-risk.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
61
ESG review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Sustainability risk policies continued 
Our thermal coal phase-out policy
As set out in the thermal coal phase-out 
policy, we are committed to phasing out the 
financing of thermal coal-fired power and 
thermal coal mining in EU and OECD markets 
by 2030, and globally by 2040. 
Our policy aims to support thermal coal 
phase-out aligned to science-based 
timeframes, recognising the different pace 
between advanced and emerging economies. 
In turn, our policy supports progress towards 
our financed emissions targets for the power 
and utilities and thermal coal mining sectors.
The policy was first published in December 
2021 and is reviewed annually, with the most 
recent update in February 2025.
For further details of our oil and gas, power and 
utilities financed emissions target, see the 
‘Targets and progress’ section in ‘Financed 
emissions’ on page 52.
For our thermal coal phase-out policy, see 
www.hsbc.com/-/files/hsbc/our-approach/riskand-responsibility/pdfs/240125-hsbc-thermalcoal-phase-out-policy.pdf.
Thermal coal financing exposures
We aim to reduce thermal coal financing 
drawn balance exposure from a 2020 
baseline by at least 25% by 2025, and aim to 
reduce it by 50% by 2030.
Our basis of preparation for reporting on 
thermal coal financing drawn balance 
exposures is aligned with our thermal coal 
phase-out policy and applies a risk-based 
approach to reporting on relevant exposures. 
This includes the use of globally recognised 
third-party data sources to screen clients and 
applies materiality considerations to product 
type, customer type and exposure type, 
which informs inclusion and exclusion 
requirements.
Specifically, for product types, short-term 
lending exposures are excluded from our 
thermal coal financing exposures reporting, in 
line with our financed emissions 
methodology. For customer types, exclusions 
are applied for certain customer types such 
as sovereigns and individuals. For exposure 
types, a threshold of $15m for drawn 
balances is applied for thermal coal financing 
exposures reporting.
We recognise that we provide financing to 
groups of connected companies where the 
wider group has thermal coal exposures, and 
this introduces additional complexities when 
estimating thermal coal exposure. In such 
cases, we consider the nature and the extent 
of the connections and any restrictions on 
use of financing proceeds to fund the thermal 
coal activities.
We continue to refine our basis of preparation 
and have made further enhancements in 
2024 while taking into account experience 
from policy implementation over time.
Applying our refined basis of preparation did 
not have a material impact on the thermal 
coal financing drawn balance exposure as of 
31 December 2020. 
 For further details of our Financed Emissions and 
Thermal Coal Exposures Methodology, see 
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-andresponsible-business/esg-reporting-centre.
The chart below sets out our thermal coal 
financing drawn balance exposure for the 
2020 baseline as well as the exposure figures 
for 2021† and 2022†, which were $1bn 
(rounded).
We continue to work on our 2023 and 2024 
numbers and expect to report on these in 
future disclosures. 
Thermal Coal Financing drawn balance 
exposure
1
$bn
2020
2021
2022
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
1 The reduction is based on estimated underlying 
numbers aligned to our refined basis of 
preparation.
† Data is subject to independent third-party limited 
assurance, in accordance with ISAE 3000/ISAE 
3410. For further details, see our Financed 
Emissions and Thermal Coal Exposures 
Methodology and independent third-party limited 
assurance report, which are available at 
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-andresponsible-business/esg-reporting-centre. 
 For further details of our approach to financed 
emissions, see ’Our Approach to financed 
emissions’ on page 48.
Asset Management policy
HSBC Asset Management’s Energy and 
Thermal Coal Policies have been developed in 
support of HSBC Group’s net zero ambition. 
In its capacity as a discretionary investment 
manager and under its Energy Policy, HSBC 
Asset Management engages and assesses 
the transition plans of oil and gas, and power 
and utilities issuers responsible for around 70 
per cent of relevant emissions based upon all 
listed equity and corporate fixed income 
managed within its major investment hubs. 
Its Thermal Coal Policy is developed in 
support of the transition from thermal coalfired power and thermal coal mining 
(collectively ‘thermal coal’) within the 2030/40 
timelines set out in the HSBC Thermal Coal 
Phase-Out Policy, and is intended to help 
meet the dual objectives of phasing out 
thermal coal within science-based 
timeframes and of energy transition in more 
coal-reliant economies. 
The Energy Policy and Thermal Coal Policy 
complement one another and are reviewed at 
least annually.
 For further details of the energy policy, see 
www.assetmanagement.hsbc.co.uk/-/media/
files/attachments/common/energy-policy-en.pdf.
 For further details of the thermal coal policy, see 
www.assetmanagement.hsbc.co.uk/-/media/
files/attachments/common/coal-policy-en.pdf.
ESG review | Environment 
62
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Social 
Building inclusion and resilience
We play an active role in opening up a world of opportunity for our customers, 
colleagues and communities by connecting across our international networks 
to help build a more inclusive and resilient society.
At a glance
Inclusion is key to opening up a world of 
opportunity. It involves a commitment to 
identifying and addressing barriers that may 
stop people from accessing opportunities 
because of who they are or where they are 
from.
Inclusion goes hand in hand with resilience. 
We aim to help people build the capabilities 
they need to achieve their goals and to deal 
with the challenges they face, so we are 
focused on delivering products, services and 
education that support our colleagues, 
customers and communities.
Colleagues
We believe that an inclusive, healthy and 
rewarding workplace helps the whole Group 
succeed. We are focused on inclusive hiring so 
we can help ensure our colleagues – and 
particularly our leadership – are representative 
of the communities we serve. 
Employee well-being is essential. We offer all 
colleagues a wide range of resources that help 
support their mental, physical and financial 
well-being so they can thrive in and out of 
work. We are working to ensure that our 
offices, branches and digital spaces are 
accessible.
Customers
We are committed to helping our customers 
access the financial services they need. They 
should not find it more difficult to access 
finance because of their gender, ethnicity, 
sexual orientation, neurodiversity or disability. 
Our ambition is to create a welcoming, 
inclusive and accessible banking experience 
for all our customers.
We build resilience by creating products and 
services that simplify the banking experience, 
so customers can manage their wealth more 
easily. We also provide financial education for 
our customers. 
Communities
In 2024, we updated our global philanthropy 
strategy to align with our ESG areas of focus – 
‘transition to net zero’ and ‘building inclusion 
and resilience’, allowing us to work alongside 
the communities we operate within to help 
create change. 
We believe that fostering inclusion and 
building resilience helps us to create long-term 
value and growth. By removing unnecessary 
barriers and striving to be a fair and equitable 
organisation, we can attract and retain the best 
talent, support a wider customer base to 
achieve their goals and stimulate growth in our 
communities.
In this section
Our commitment 
to inclusion
Our approach to inclusion
We value diversity of thought and we are building an inclusive
environment that reflects our customers and communities.
 Page 64
Fostering a diverse 
environment
 Page 65
Fostering an inclusive 
culture
 Page 66
Building a healthy 
workplace
Listening to our colleagues We run a Snapshot survey and report insights to our Group Operating 
Committee and the Board.
 Page 67
Being a great place to 
work
We aim to create a great workplace that will help in attracting, retaining and 
motivating our colleagues so they can deliver for our customers across 
countries and territories.
 Page 68
Developing skills, 
careers and 
opportunities
Learning and skills 
development
We energise our colleagues for growth and build resilience by equipping 
them with skills that they need today and preparing them to meet future 
challenges.
 Page 70
Building customer 
inclusion and 
resilience
Our approach to customer 
inclusion and resilience 
We aim to support financial well-being and remove barriers customers can 
face in accessing financial services.
 Page 71
Engaging with our 
communities
Helping to build a more 
inclusive and resilient 
society
We focus on a number of priorities where we can make a difference to the 
community and support sustainable growth.
 Page 72
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
63
ESG review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Our commitment to inclusion
Our approach to inclusion
Our purpose, ‘Opening up a world of 
opportunity’, explains why we exist as an 
organisation and is the foundation of our 
global inclusion strategy.
We have identified specific Group-wide 
priorities, which we track and monitor 
progress against. Embracing our unique 
international footprint, we adapt 
implementation of our global inclusion 
strategy to help ensure it remains locally 
relevant and compliant with local laws.
How we hold ourselves to account
We set strategic priorities 
Our strategic priorities are aligned to three 
public aspirational ambitions, which have 
been created to increase representation of 
under-represented groups. In 2024, we 
continued to make progress against our 
priorities by:
– achieving a 34.6% representation of 
women in senior leadership roles, with 
an ambition of achieving 35% by 20251;
– attaining a 3.0% representation of Black 
heritage colleagues in senior leadership 
in the UK and US combined, against an 
ambition to achieve 3.4% by 20251; and
– increasing our Inclusion index as 
measured in our Snapshot survey, to 
78% against a 2024 target of 75%.
1 These numerical ambitions do not form part 
of any US-based senior leader performance or 
other objectives, or in other jurisdictions where 
application of such should not apply under 
local law. 
We monitor progress
We consistently track and measure 
performance against our priorities, utilising 
our data capabilities to accurately monitor 
progress through:
– an inclusion dashboard, which monitors 
progress against ambitions and is 
reported to the Group Operating 
Committee on a quarterly basis; and
– review meetings between our Head of 
Inclusion and each Group Operating 
Committee member to discuss progress 
against aspirational ambitions and to 
support further progress.
We are transparent
We are transparent in sharing our data 
through external disclosures and we 
participate in benchmarking to measure 
our progress across the industry. In 2024, 
we:
– ranked as a Top 75 employer in the UK 
Social Mobility Index, improving 30 
places to number 37;
– ranked number 3 in the Stonewall 
Workplace Equality Index in the UK and 
maintained our Stonewall Gold standard; 
and
– were awarded an Ambassador Status by 
Carers UK. 
We are evidence-led
Our priorities are informed by data, and we continue to enable our colleagues to self-identify across a range of data points that reflect their 
personal identity, including ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender identity and ability. 
We have enabled our colleagues to self-identify through our systems and our Snapshot survey, helping us to understand the diverse 
composition of our global workforce.
Data availability enables us to embrace our international footprint, set locally-relevant priorities, support under-represented groups and 
improve outcomes for our colleagues. In countries and territories where we are able to do so, we invite colleagues to share their data with 
us. In 2024, we enabled 93% of our colleagues to disclose their ethnic background, with 67% of colleagues currently choosing to do so, 
where this is legally permissible. In certain markets we invite colleagues to share additional characteristics with us, for example, disability or 
socio-economic background. 
For further details of our representation data, pay gap data, and actions, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-people/inclusion-at-hsbc and 
the ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
Parker Review UK disclosures
The history of our organisation is rooted in multiculturalism, and we remain focused on 
embracing the different cultures and perspectives in the communities we serve while 
enabling our customers to realise their global ambitions. 
HSBC has supported the aims and objectives of the Parker Review and participated in annual 
reporting since its formation in 2016.
We are committed to building a diverse workforce that reflects the communities we serve. 
98.5% of our UK-based senior leadership population (including our Executive Committee and 
their direct reports) have made self-disclosures regarding their ethnic heritage. A total of 
17.1% of our senior leadership identify as coming from an ethnic minority background, broadly 
aligned to the UK Census representation of 18%.
Our ambition is to ensure we remain reflective of UK Census data.
ESG review | Social 
64
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Holdings Board
Group 
Executives
Combined 
Group 
Executives and 
reports
1
Subsidiary 
directors
2
Senior 
leadership
3
Middle 
management
3
Junior 
management
3
All employees
Fostering a diverse environment
Women in senior leadership
Increasing female representation in our senior 
leadership roles is one of our longeststanding strategic priorities. Since achieving 
our ambition of having 30% of senior 
leadership positions held by women in 2020, 
we set a new ambition to reach 35% by 
20251. We are on track to meet our 2025 
ambition, with 34.6% of senior leadership 
roles held by women at the end of 2024. Our 
hiring practices are merit-based, and we seek 
to ensure that every candidate, regardless of 
their identity and background, has an equal 
opportunity to demonstrate their skill and 
potential. A total of 36.8% of all external 
appointments into senior positions were 
female, compared with 37.7% in 2023. 
Women represented 38.0% of all promotions 
into senior leadership roles in 2024. 
In 2024, we relaunched our Accelerating 
Women’s Leadership programme, developed 
in partnership with Cranfield Business School. 
The programme aims to strengthen our talent 
pipeline by improving the representation of 
women in senior leadership roles. It is 
designed to increase the visibility, career 
advocacy and network of our high-performing 
senior women, ultimately driving engagement 
and enhancing leadership capability. In 2024, 
we ran two pilot sessions held in the UK and 
Hong Kong. We also launched a modified 
version of the programme in a US pilot called 
Accelerating Enterprise Leaders, which also 
welcomes our male colleagues. 
Our Coaching Circles programme, which 
matches senior leaders with a small group of 
colleagues to provide advice and support on 
the development of leadership skills and 
network building, welcomed 4,052 women 
and 4,103 men in 2024.
Black colleagues in senior leadership
Having a workforce that better reflects the 
communities we serve remains one of our 
strategic priorities. We have an ambition to 
increase our Black heritage senior leader 
representation in both the UK and US 
combined to 3.4% by 20251. In 2024 we 
maintained our position at 3.0%.
Previously in 2020, we set our initial ethnicity 
ambition to double the number of Black 
colleagues in senior leadership roles globally 
by 20251. While this ambition was not tracked 
through our senior leadership performance 
scorecards, it remained a strategic priority. 
Since 2020, we have increased the 
representation of our Black colleagues in 
senior leadership by 60%. We have seen a 
number of changes to the global footprint of 
our business since setting this ambition, and 
despite our efforts so far, we are not making 
the progress towards our ambition as quickly 
as we would like and we are unlikely to 
achieve our 2020 ambition by 2025.
We remain committed to focusing on the 
development of our Black heritage 
colleagues. To address this, we use the 
Solaris programme as a development 
initiative for our UK-based Black heritage 
women. To date, 41 women have completed 
the programme, with 20% of participants 
securing a promotion.
Our immersive development programme, ‘In 
Their Shoes’ was designed to bring to life the 
lived experiences of minority ethnic 
colleagues, including the challenges they 
face. In 2024, the programme was 
recognised as an Outstanding Innovation at 
the Learning Excellence Awards and was 
highly commended in the Global Diversity 
Initiative of the Year category at the British 
Diversity Awards. Since its launch,12,707 
colleagues have completed the programme. 
1 These numerical ambitions do not form part of 
any US-based senior leader performance or 
other objectives, or in other jurisdictions where 
application of such should not apply under local 
law.
Gender representation
46.2%
78.9%
68.0%
67.2%
65.4%
62.3%
50.9%
48.8%
53.8%
21.1%
32.0%
32.8%
34.6%
37.7%
49.1%
51.2%
Male
Female
1 Combined Group Executives and direct reports 
includes HSBC Group Executives and their direct 
reports (excluding administrative staff) as of 31 
December 2024.
2 Directors (or equivalent) of subsidiary companies 
that are included in the Group’s consolidated 
financial statements, excluding corporate directors. 
3 In our leadership structure, we classify senior 
leadership as those at global career band 3 and 
above; middle management as those at global 
career band 4; and junior management as those 
at global career bands 5 and 6.
Representation and pay gaps
We publish this data annually to ensure both 
transparency and a maintained focus on 
addressing representation gaps within the 
organisation. Our gender and ethnicity pay gap 
reporting shows the difference in average pay 
between these two groups of people and the 
wider workforce, regardless of role or seniority. 
We have reported our UK gender 
representation and pay gap data since 2017 in 
line with reporting regulations, and have 
voluntarily extended this to include the US, 
mainland China, Hong Kong, India, Mexico, 
Singapore, Malaysia, and the UAE, alongside 
ethnicity data for the UK and US. In 2024, we 
have also extended this to include our 
colleagues with a disability in the UK. This now 
covers approximately 81% of our workforce. In 
2024, our mean aggregate UK-wide gender pay 
gap was 40.6% compared with 43.2% in 2023, 
and the ethnicity pay gap was 7.7% compared 
with 4.5% in 2023. Our UK gender pay gap is 
driven by several factors, including the shape of 
our workforce, where there are more men than 
women in senior higher-paid roles and more 
women than men in junior roles. While we are 
confident in our approach to pay equity, until 
women and ethnic minority colleagues are 
proportionately represented across all areas 
and levels of the organisation we will continue 
to see gaps in average pay. 
We are committed to paying colleagues fairly 
regardless of their gender or ethnicity and have 
processes to review that remuneration is free 
from bias. We also review our pay practices 
and undertake a pay equity review annually. If 
pay differences are identified that are not due 
to objective, tangible reasons such as 
performance, skills or experience, we make 
adjustments. 
For further details of our representation data, pay 
gap data, and actions, see www.hsbc.com/whowe-are/our-people/inclusion-at-hsbc and the ESG 
Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
65
ESG review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Fostering an inclusive culture
Looking to the future and beyond our public 
commitments, we refreshed our global 
inclusion strategy to refocus our ambitions 
against our strategic priorities, and set out our 
approach to inclusion over the next three to 
five years. We have established key 
principles that enable us to pivot towards 
building a more inclusive culture for all of our 
colleagues. 
Our colleagues’ personal sense of belonging 
and psychological safety are two key 
measures captured as part of our Inclusion 
Index in the annual Snapshot survey, which 
we monitor and review by various identities 
that comprise our global workforce. In 2024 
we achieved a score of 78%, which is three 
percentage points ahead of our annual 
aspirational goal, and on par with the financial 
services industry benchmark.
Analysis of our Inclusion index allows us to 
measure engagement levels of specific 
colleague groups in greater detail, in particular 
different personal identities, to better 
understand the experiences of our colleagues 
globally. We found that scores from 
colleagues who identify as male and female 
were comparable, at 79% and 77% 
respectively, remaining unchanged from 
2023. From an ethnicity perspective, our 
Black heritage colleagues were two 
percentage points below the Group-wide 
average, while our Asian heritage colleagues’ 
results were on a par with the overall score, 
at 78%. From a sexual orientation 
perspective, colleagues who identified as 
LGB+ were one percentage point above the 
Group-wide result.
Our employee resource groups 
Bringing together the shared identities, 
values and interests of our colleagues allows 
us to build an inclusive culture across the 
organisation and our volunteer-led employee 
resource groups (’ERGs’) enable this. Our 
ERGs provide insight on key societal issues.
Through sponsorship by our non-executive 
directors and our Group Operating 
Committee, we bring together our senior 
leaders and colleagues, bringing to life our 
values of ‘valuing difference’ and ‘succeeding 
together’.
In 2024, our ERGs led numerous initiatives 
and events including our Pride ERG for 
LGBTQ+ colleagues, who worked with our 
Group Benefits team to expand Gender 
Dysphoria healthcare benefits in India. 
Our Ability ERG, for our colleagues with a 
disability, created a framework called ‘Know 
me Better’, as a tool to help facilitate 
conversations between colleagues and line 
managers regarding a colleague’s disability.
Our focus on disability
We are dedicated to creating an inclusive 
culture where all employees, including those 
with disabilities can thrive. Our progress is 
guided by our Global Disability Council, 
sponsored by our HSBC UK Chief Executive 
Officer, with senior leaders across the 
business meeting every two months. 
We have launched the second cohort of our 
Career Development Programme for our 
colleagues in middle and junior management 
with a disability, in partnership with an 
external coaching provider. In 2024, we 
launched an international pilot of the 
programme in Hong Kong. 
In 2024, stories from our colleagues were 
showcased globally as part of our Disability 
Confidence series. The series leveraged the 
power of our colleagues sharing their 
experiences, the support they receive, and 
how this has helped them empower others to 
do the same.
We have also expanded our workplace 
adjustments programme through our provider 
Microlink, with services now available to over 
44,000 colleagues in India, a 17 percentage 
point increase compared with 2023.
Socio-economic diversity
To better support our colleagues from lower 
socio-economic backgrounds, we have 
partnered with the London School of 
Economics and Progress Together to produce 
a comprehensive framework targeting socioeconomic mobility in 2024. 
The ‘VOICE’ is designed to support 
individuals, people managers, and 
organisations in retaining and advancing 
colleagues from lower socio-economic 
backgrounds within the UK financial services 
sector. The blueprint was developed through 
extensive input from professionals across the 
industry who come from a lower socioeconomic background, and they shared their 
experiences as part of our qualitative 
research. It highlights the biases that can 
impact retention and progression and offers 
actionable, evidence-based strategies rooted 
in behavioural science to drive meaningful 
change.
Through our Strive ERG for colleagues who 
come from a lower socio-economic 
background we have developed internal 
mentoring programmes pairing junior and 
senior colleagues for coaching and 
development sessions.
We have enabled our colleagues in Singapore 
to share their socio-economic background.
In 2023, we entered the Social Mobility Index 
for the first time and gained recognition as a 
top 75 employer. We continue to be 
recognised as a top 75 employer, improving 
our rank by 30 places to number 37 in 2024. 
Supporting our colleagues with caring responsibilities 
We have found that many of our colleagues are often involved in both their careers and 
significant caring responsibilities outside work, and are finding managing both responsibilities 
increasingly challenging. In our Snapshot survey nearly 16% of colleagues self-identified as 
having caring responsibilities. 
In 2024 we launched the Global Carers Charter, which comprises a series of tools, policies 
and support available for colleagues with caring responsibilities. Following its launch in the UK, 
HSBC’s Global Carers Charter was awarded Ambassador Status by Carers UK.
ESG review | Social 
66
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Building a healthy workplace
Listening to our colleagues
We value difference at HSBC, and we do this 
by seeking out different perspectives and 
listening. Our colleagues succeed together by 
being connected across the organisation, and 
they take responsibility by speaking up. 
These activities are core to our values and we 
capture regular feedback from our colleagues 
to help improve HSBC and the employee 
experience.
How we listen
Our annual employee engagement survey is 
called ‘Snapshot’ and runs every September. 
It is an opportunity for all employees to share 
feedback on what it is like to work at HSBC. 
Our 2024 survey achieved a response rate of 
88%, up from 85% in 2023, with more than 
182,000 colleagues choosing to share their 
views. This high level of participation enables 
us to share results confidentially across all 
levels of the organisation. Insights from our 
Snapshot survey are shared with the Group 
Operating Committee and the Board, and are 
provided directly to more than 11,000 people 
managers with 10 or more responses from 
their teams. We support teams to have good 
conversations about their feedback through 
the provision of interactive dashboards, action 
planning tools and discussion guides. 
Our Employee Engagement Index, our key 
measure of how people feel about HSBC, has 
increased to 80%, up three percentage points 
compared with 2023. This was the largest 
increase seen across the Snapshot indices, 
and puts us six points ahead of the global 
financial services benchmark that we 
measure against.
Key driver analysis shows engagement is 
most influenced by a clear understanding of 
HSBC’s strategic objectives, confidence in 
the future and our strategy, positivity towards 
career and development, and trust and 
confidence in leadership. 
Following significant increases last year, the 
career index remained stable at 71% and is 
six points ahead of the global financial 
services benchmark. The proportion of 
colleagues stating a preference to remain 
with HSBC for five or more years increased 
to 70%, up three percentage points from 
2023. Our inclusion index, a key measure of 
building an inclusive culture at HSBC, 
remained unchanged at 78%, against an 
ambition of maintaining 75%.
We have found that 75% of colleagues have 
said that working conditions enable them to 
be productive, which is up two percentage 
points compared with 2023. Despite this, 
62% of colleagues report that work 
processes allow them to work efficiently, 
which is down three percentage points 
compared with 2023. This remains one of the 
lowest scoring items across the Snapshot 
survey, particularly across our senior 
leadership population. There are a number of 
initiatives underway to make it easier for 
colleagues to work efficiently.
We also run an annual Pay and Benefits 
survey, which in 2024 helped to evaluate 
changes to our performance approach, as 
well as capturing ongoing feedback about 
colleague expectations on compensation and 
development in support of our employer 
value proposition. We complement these 
large surveys with continuous lifecycle 
feedback from new joiners, internal movers 
and voluntary leavers.
We are committed to building on our high 
levels of engagement and feedback 
throughout 2025.
 For further details of our Snapshot data, see the 
ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
Employee conduct and harassment
We expect all our employees to treat each 
other with respect and dignity, and we do not 
tolerate or condone discrimination, 
harassment or bullying in any form, as 
outlined in our Global Anti-Bullying and 
Harassment Code. This is supported by our 
Global Code of Conduct, which helps us to 
maintain high standards across the Group. 
We encourage our colleagues to speak up 
about poor behaviour or things that do not 
seem right. At times, we know it can be 
difficult to raise concerns, so regular 
communication and tracking is important to 
us. We measure confidence to speak up via 
our Snapshot Speak Up Index, which is at 
77% in 2024, up by one percentage point 
from 2023. We recognise that our speak up 
culture requires continued focus to ensure 
we create the right environment for our 
people. Our Snapshot survey revealed an 
increase in colleagues able to state their 
opinion without fear of negative 
consequences, with 73% of colleagues 
feeling able to do so, up by one percentage 
point from 2023.
We strive to improve awareness and 
education around poor behaviours and 
strengthen our understanding and response 
to these issues across all levels of the 
organisation. In 2024, to ensure continued 
high-quality investigations into conduct 
concerns, we introduced six new investigator 
training modules aimed at the Human 
Resources investigator community.
Our colleagues continue to receive training on 
bullying, harassment, discrimination and 
retaliation at least every other year in our 
Global Mandatory Training curriculum and as 
part of other learning resources, including in 
People Manager training. 
We have mandatory procedures for handling 
and investigating employee concerns, which 
include those for bullying and harassment. 
Cases are continually monitored from our 
speak-up channels, and data is reported to 
management committees to ensure there is 
visibility at leadership level.
In 2024 the bank received a total of 624 
concerns raised relating to bullying and 
harassment. Where the concerns were 
substantiated following an investigation, 
appropriate action was taken, which included 
termination of services where appropriate. In 
2024, 26% of concerns raised were either 
partly or fully substantiated and 34 colleagues 
were dismissed in relation to bullying, 
harassment, discrimination or retaliation.
We are committed to addressing this type of 
behaviour and will continue to take action 
where we find that an employee has 
breached our values and high standards of 
conduct.
Delivering accessible learning
We are committed to fostering an inclusive workplace for all colleagues, regardless of 
technology or ability. 
In 2024, our Global Mandatory Training received Gold at the Brandon Hall Awards for Best 
Training Program for Global Accessibility Standards. 
To uphold these standards we collaborate closely with our accessibility experts, ensuring our 
digital learning aligns with the high benchmarks set for our customer-facing websites. Our 
Global Mandatory Training assigned to all colleagues undergoes an external audit to identify 
any gaps affecting the experience of colleagues, such as those with visual impairments or 
those who are neurodiverse. We also conduct inclusive user testing to incorporate learner 
feedback into the design, helping to ensure a seamless experience for everyone.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
67
ESG review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Being a great place to work
To fulfil our purpose and drive our strategy, 
we need the best people, performing at their 
best. Focusing on opportunities for 
colleagues, making them a part of something 
bigger and being clear on what they can 
expect when they deliver on our strategy, is 
fundamental to delivering for our customers. 
Our workforce proposition strengthens our 
ability to attract, retain and energise our 
colleagues and is driven by three key reward 
principles of rewarding colleagues’ 
responsibly, recognising colleagues’ success 
and supporting our colleagues to grow. 
Rewarding colleagues responsibly
Our pay and benefits proposition aims to 
reward colleagues responsibly, helping to 
ensure financial security for all. We remain 
committed to providing a competitive total 
compensation package with an appropriate 
mix of fixed pay and variable pay. In our 
Snapshot survey, 52% of colleagues feel they 
are paid fairly for what they do, the sentiment 
remaining unchanged from 2023.
Following our accreditation as a global living 
wage employer in 2024 we have continued to 
work with the Fair Wage Network, which 
provides an independent source of wage 
levels. HSBC has achieved accreditation as a 
global living wage employer in 2025 in 
respect of the next two years. A living wage 
should be sufficient to cover an adequate 
standard of living given the cost of goods and 
services in each country in which we operate. 
We will continue to review all wages globally 
against local living wage benchmarks. 
For our UK suppliers that have staff working 
within the UK, we seek to encourage them to 
pay at least the living wage. 
 For further details of our approach to workforce 
reward, see page 301.
Recognising colleagues’ success
We believe in recognising our colleagues’ 
success and have a number of mechanisms 
to help enable colleagues to be rewarded for 
their work. 
In 2024, we introduced performance routines, 
to encourage our colleagues to talk about 
their ambitious goals throughout the year. 
This is complemented with improving the 
exchange of feedback, so colleagues know 
how they are doing and how they can 
improve. These activities are brought 
together through performance check-in 
conversations at the year-end, with a 
simplified approach to performance 
assessments.
These changes were communicated to over 
215,000 colleagues in 59 markets at the 
beginning of the year. Our Pay and Benefits 
survey measures several factors, including 
our colleagues’ understanding of 
performance routines, with 76% reporting a 
‘good understanding’ of how to practice 
them. In our Snapshot survey, 87% of 
colleagues reported that they had a clear 
understanding of what is expected of them 
and 94% of colleagues said they have had at 
least one performance check-in conversation 
with their manager. 
Variable pay allows us to recognise the 
performance and behaviours of our 
colleagues. In 2024 we introduced ‘Target 
Variable Pay’ to 150,000 colleagues in 47 
markets. 
We have supported managers in their 
understanding of the changes, with nearly 
18,000 people managers attending training. 
Changes to our pay structure provide more 
clarity and transparency on how we make pay 
decisions and how performance impacts 
variable pay, helping colleagues understand 
how they contribute to the performance of 
the organisation.
Our ‘At Our Best’ recognition platform offers 
employees the opportunity to recognise their 
peers for role model behaviours linked to our 
values. In 2024, our colleagues recognised 
one another over 1.5 million times, up three 
percentage points from 2023. Managers are 
also encouraged to recognise colleagues’ 
service anniversaries every five years up to 
30 years of service, and at 40 years. In 2024 
over 28,000 anniversaries were celebrated.
Share plans are another way to empower 
colleagues to participate in the Group’s 
success. In 2024, we invited 194,000 
colleagues to participate in our share plans 
and 93% of colleagues globally now have 
access to a share plan. 
Supporting our colleagues to grow
To help our colleagues to grow personally and 
professionally, we are committed to 
supporting their mental, physical and financial 
well-being, offering flexibility and helping 
colleagues develop new skills. 
We use colleague feedback, benchmarking 
from industry experts and we work with 
external partners across business, civil 
society and academia. As a founding member 
of the World Wellbeing Movement, we are 
working with the associated Wellbeing 
Research Centre at the University of Oxford 
to shape our approach to well-being. In 
Snapshot, a record 78% of our colleagues 
said, ‘my organisation cares about my wellbeing’, up nine percentage points from 2023. 
We further detail our approach to supporting 
our colleagues to grow on the following page. 
We further detail our approach to skills and 
career development on page 70. 
Our first ever global activity challenge
We launched our first ever global activity challenge designed to help colleagues increase their 
activity levels and well-being over a four-week period. With over 70 activities to choose from, 
we supported colleagues with a new global internal community group on our intranet, two 
expert speaker events, tailored content given on the Virgin Pulse app and motivational videos 
filmed by colleagues. During the challenge, colleagues collectively logged physical activity 
equivalent to 478,000 miles, which is equivalent to 19 times around the equator. After the 
challenge, two thirds of the participants surveyed responded positively to joining the next 
challenge. 
One in four global colleagues with the Virgin Pulse app joined the challenge, with Asia-Pacific 
accounting for 77% of all participation.
ESG review | Social 
68
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Being a great place to work continued 
Flexible working
Flexible working remains one of the top 
reasons colleagues say they would 
recommend HSBC to someone else, with 
74% of colleagues saying flexible working is 
the aspect of our well-being programme they 
value the most. In 2024, 85% of our 
colleagues practised some form of flexible 
working arrangement, with 75% of 
colleagues working in a hybrid way.
We acknowledged that not all our colleagues 
had the right balance between working at 
home or in the office. In 2024, we have found 
that a better balance has been achieved, with 
colleagues attending the office between 2-3 
days per week on average. This was achieved 
by our senior leadership reinforcing their 
expectations on office attendance.
To further support flexibility and work-life 
balance we have improved family leave 
policies. We now offer 94% of employees at 
least 18 weeks of parental leave on full pay 
for primary caregivers, and 74% of 
employees have at least two weeks of paid 
leave for secondary caregivers. We also 
provide five fully paid days of carers leave and 
of compassionate leave, to 67% and 79% of 
colleagues, respectively.
Mental well-being
In 2024 we continued to retain number one 
status in the CCLA Corporate Mental Health 
Benchmark for the third year running. While 
we are pleased with the progress made in 
2024, mental health did decline with 79% of 
colleagues saying they have positive mental 
health, compared with 83% in 2023. This 
decline aligns with broader societal trends, 
with younger generations in particular 
experiencing lower levels of mental health. 
We have continued to make the meditation 
app Headspace available to our colleagues 
globally, with over 35,000 enrolled, and we 
have extended access to family and friends. 
In 2024, we upgraded our Employee 
Assistance Programme in over 30 countries 
to support the mental health of colleagues 
and their families. We have lowered the age 
threshold on paediatric counselling support, 
and in some countries this is now available 
from age five years. More countries will aim 
to enhance support for children in 2025.
We have sought third-party assurances and 
benchmarking to ensure our approach 
remains relevant and effective. In 2024, we 
used the 2023 MindForward Alliance’s 
Thriving at Work Benchmark, for which we 
received a global score of 91 points, 14 points 
ahead of the global average. 
In 2024, mental health awareness training 
was completed by more than 227,000 
colleagues as part of Global Mandatory 
Training. Our voluntary mental health 
education modules have been completed 
over 37,000 times, with 74% being 
managers. We have also expanded the global 
reach of mental health champions in our 
Mindfulness Network by nearly 27%. 
Physical well-being
The Snapshot survey also revealed that 72% 
of colleagues rate their physical health as 
positive, compared with 74% in 2023. In 
2024, we continued to make the Virgin Pulse 
app available to colleagues, supporting them 
to increase their physical activity. Over 
21,000 colleagues have now downloaded the 
app, up 260% from 2023. More than 1,000 
personal and team activity challenges were 
run and nearly 5,000 health checks were 
completed. 
We have continued to provide access to 
private medical insurance for 99% of 
permanent employees and telemedicine 
healthcare services in the majority of our 
countries and territories. In certain countries 
and territories, we also provide on-site 
medical centres that the majority of 
colleagues can access. We have also 
increased the number of colleagues who 
have access to company paid health 
assessments. In 2024, eligibility for a 
personalised health assessment was 
extended to all UK employees. Health 
assessments are provided in 43 countries and 
we are working to extend availability in 2025.
Financial well-being
Financial challenges remain a concern for 
many colleagues, caused by increases in the 
cost of living globally. In 2024, 62% of 
colleagues said they felt positive about their 
financial health and 57% of colleagues said 
they have at least three months of essential 
outgoings saved, both up one percentage 
point from 2023.
We launched a five-part financial well-being 
series covering key career milestones. The 
series had over 4,000 attendees during the 
live events, with 93% of participants saying 
the events were useful or very useful. 
Recordings of the events have since been 
watched more than 15,000 times across 37 
countries. Since the launch of the series, 
65% of colleagues said they know where to 
find financial well-being support at HSBC, up 
five percentage points from 2023. 
In our Pay and Benefits survey one in three 
colleagues said that they want more support 
with financial well-being. In 2025 we aim to 
trial a new financial well-being platform with 
5,000 colleagues in the UK and Asia to help 
our colleagues improve their financial literacy, 
money skills and planning. 
For further details of our Snapshot well-being 
data see the ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/
esg.
Awards
CCLA Global 100 Mental Health 
Benchmark
– Ranked number 1 global 
employer for the third 
consecutive year
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
69
Supporting our 
colleagues in the Middle 
East
In the wake of regional conflicts we 
made promotion and support of mental 
health a priority. We held regular on-site 
Critical Incident Support across our 
MENAT region, covering Egypt, UAE, 
Kuwait, Türkiye and Qatar. 
Across the region, belief that HSBC 
genuinely cares about its colleagues was 
at 66%, up 12 percentage points from 
2023. We also found that awareness of 
mental health support at HSBC was at 
74%, up six percentage points from 
2023. 
To support broader well-being across the 
region we increased paid maternity leave 
to a consistent 18 weeks. Family friendly 
enhancements were also made to the 
medical plan with the introduction of 
fertility treatment coverage and new 
coverage for Applied Behaviour Analysis 
in Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar and the 
UAE. 
We also held on-site breast screening 
and flu immunisation appointments in 
the UAE. Following increased demand 
for these services, more appointments 
and longer hours have been made 
available. 
ESG review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Developing skills, careers and opportunities 
Learning and skills development
Employee development energises our 
colleagues for growth and helps equip them 
with the skills they need today while also 
preparing them to meet future challenges.
Enabling future skills
We have adapted our skills development 
platforms and learning resources, to help 
prepare our workforce for future challenges 
and enable skills building at scale. In 2024, 
we:
– increased the number of active users and 
participation in learning programmes via our 
learning experience Degreed. This aims to 
address skills gaps through internal and 
external learning content and courses, 
enabling colleagues to share, collaborate 
and learn individually or in groups through 
structured learning pathways;
– unlocked over 250,000 hours of skills 
development through our Talent 
Marketplace. To date more than 46,000 
colleagues have created a profile helping 
them match their interest in developing 
specific skills or career goals with on-thejob projects and networking;
– accelerated the use of digital badging to 
acknowledge skill-building achievements. 
We have launched over 150 badges and 
issued over 12,000 badging credentials 
associated with priority skills such as 
sustainability, AI and data analytics; and
– enabled our colleagues to learn via a range 
of channels, reflected in an increase of total 
training hours by our colleagues to 6.2 
million hours. 
Maintaining our risk management culture
Our Risk Academy delivers and deploys 
comprehensive learning opportunities for all 
employees, including foundational training in 
traditional areas of risk management, such as 
financial crime risk, and specialised 
development for senior leaders and those in 
high-risk roles. The Academy also addresses 
issues like ESG risk, AI and cybersecurity.
For senior leaders, we have introduced new 
programmes centred on Enterprise 
Leadership through a risk lens. These 
programmes are designed to support HSBC’s 
strategic priority of sustainable growth by 
equipping leaders with the skills needed to 
navigate an evolving risk environment. We 
launched and concluded a new Financial 
Crime masterclass series for our senior 
leader population, focusing on the importance 
of risk management and protecting the bank 
from financial crime.
Building responsible AI expertise 
As we continue to enhance our AI capabilities 
across the organisation, our new AI Academy 
helps to support advanced skills development 
aligned with HSBC’s AI strategy. This was 
launched in response to the growing global 
interest in AI and focuses on fostering AI 
literacy and promoting responsible AI use 
throughout the bank.
Our Global Mandatory Training covers key 
principles and foundational concepts of AI 
usage and we have developed foundational 
and intermediate pathways to raise 
awareness of AI principles, ethics, risks and 
governance. We have also developed specific 
courses tailored for our senior leadership 
population that focus on understanding AI 
and exploring its use cases for business and 
decision making.
Skilling the transition to net zero
Our Sustainability Academy continues to 
support our net zero ambitions and strategy. 
As the Academy has evolved, we have 
increased our focus on building capabilities 
beyond foundational skills, specifically 
targeting priority groups that support both our 
customers and our operations in the 
transition to net zero. In 2024, our key focus 
has been on:
– providing on-demand learning tailored to 
the specific roles, regions, and client bases 
of colleagues involved in supporting 
customers through the transition;
– facilitating external certifications and 
qualifications, as needed, to deepen 
colleagues’ expertise in areas such as 
Sustainability Climate Risk through 
providers like GARP and Fitch;
– delivering a three-month Sustainability 
Leadership Programme in collaboration 
with Imperial College London and our own 
Sustainability Centre of Excellence experts 
for over 200 colleagues; and
– offering net zero learning opportunities to 
the Board and 100 of our most senior 
leaders. 
We have leveraged our internal experts from 
the Sustainability Centre of Excellence to 
provide advanced skills training in key 
transition areas, such as power systems and 
storage, carbon removal, transition in AsiaPacific, steel and cement industries, road 
transport systems, hydrogen and agriculture.
Training at HSBC 
6.2 million 
Training hours by our colleagues in 2024.
(2023: 5.3 million)
29.6 hours 
Training hours per FTE in 2024. 
(2023: 23.9 hours)
Energising our 
colleagues for growth
We aim to provide our colleagues with 
the opportunity to develop critical skills 
while creating a pipeline of talent to 
support our strategic ambitions. It is 
essential that we promote effective 
leadership and foster an environment 
that inspires our colleagues to grow. In 
2024, our focus has been on:
– Our Digital Acceleration Programme, 
which aims to create dynamic working 
methods and simplify our technology 
landscape. This will enable us to work 
faster and smarter, enhancing our 
ability to develop better products and 
services for our customers while 
embracing innovative technologies;
– Our ‘CARE’ programme, which 
embodies the principles of being 
connected, accountable, responsive 
and empathic. It outlines the 
behaviours that reflect these values, 
guiding our colleagues in delivering 
exceptional service to our customers. 
The programme has also been 
integrated into our customer 
experience objectives, with progress 
tracked through our Customer 
Centricity Index, which is included in 
our 2024 Snapshot survey.
– The Managing Director Leadership 
Programme, which was expanded in 
2024. It combines immersive inperson sessions on leadership with 
virtual deep dives on key issues and 
all-hands strategy sessions, alongside 
an enterprise risk leaders programme 
and a series focused on doing 
business in key locations. To support 
our leadership pipeline we have 
refreshed our development offering 
for the next layer of leaders to be 
delivered in 2025; and
– Our Emerging Talent proposition, 
supporting HSBC in a future-focused 
way, supplying the organisation with 
diverse and capable talent pools to 
anticipate and address existing future 
skill shortages.
ESG review | Social 
70
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The reduction in no-cost accounts between 2023 
and 2024 is due to bulk closure of inactive accounts 
in the UK.
Building customer inclusion and resilience 
Our approach to customer inclusion and resilience
We believe that financial services, when 
accessible and fair, can reduce inequality and 
help more people access opportunities. We 
play an active role in opening up a world of 
opportunity for customers and communities, 
by supporting their financial well-being, and 
removing barriers to accessing financial 
services.
Access to products and services
We provide innovative solutions to help 
improve customer access to products and 
services. For those in need of additional 
support due to social or financial 
vulnerabilities or for those customers who do 
not qualify for a standard account, the UK and 
Hong Kong offer a No-cost Account with no 
minimum balance and no account opening 
fees, to help with basic banking needs. 
In the UK, we continue to offer our 
groundbreaking ‘No Fixed Address’ service, 
working in partnership with housing and 
homelessness charity Shelter UK, providing 
access to financial services to help rebuild lives 
and increase financial resilience. Since its launch 
in November 2019, this service has supported 
over 7,000 individuals, with over 1,400 of these 
in 2024 alone.
Making banking accessible
Number of no-cost accounts held for 
customers, in the UK and Hong Kong, who do 
not qualify for a standard account or who 
might need additional support due to social or 
financial vulnerability.
674,439
718,306
716,957
Supporting financial knowledge and 
education 
We continue to invest in financial education 
content and tools across different channels to 
help customers, colleagues and communities 
be confident users of financial services, for 
example by offering programmes focused on 
improving resilience and basic money 
management skills.
Customers
Since 2020, we received over 8.8 million 
unique visitors to our global digital financial 
education content, which helps customers 
expand their financial capabilities through our 
personal financial management tools.
HSBC UK further enhanced capabilities that 
help customers to establish healthy savings 
habits through the launch of ‘Savings Goals’. 
Customers have used this mobile banking 
feature, since launch in April 2024, to set up 
over 125,000 goals, with ‘Rainy Day’ as one of 
the most popular categories. We have also 
seen that over 10% of goals have already been 
achieved showing how this capability is helping 
support customers to build financial resilience.
Well+, our flagship health and wellness-based 
reward programme on our HSBC HK mobile 
banking app had another successful year with 
over 267,000 new customers in this year alone. 
More than 400,000 customers are now 
engaged, earning points by taking part in 
activities aimed at improving their holistic 
health covering physical, mental and financial 
well-being.
Communities
In the UK we continued to support the 
development of children and young people's 
financial capability, including those with special 
education needs, through our Money Heroes 
Programme – winner of the 2024 Third Sector 
Business Charity Partnership Award (supported 
by Young Enterprise). In addition, we launched 
a new partnership with Girlguiding UK in 
November 2024, introducing the Money Skills 
– ‘I’m Money Confident’ badge.
For schools, colleges and youth groups we 
offer the ‘Smart Money’ programme, where 
training is delivered by HSBC colleagues to 
help improve financial capability and 
employability. In 2024, we trained over 1,000 
colleagues, and working with our dedicated 
Financial Education Team, over 280,000 
children and young people were engaged in 
the programme across the UK.
In Hong Kong we launched a face-to-face 
training programme for teenagers with special 
education needs on how to make healthy 
financial choices and build essential financial 
skills for day-to-day living. 
Creating an inclusive banking experience 
We endeavour to ensure that our banking 
products and services are designed to be 
accessible for customers experiencing either 
temporary or permanent challenges, such as 
disability, impairment or a major life event. In 
Hong Kong we introduced a simplified mobile 
banking app designed to improve digital 
inclusion for seniors, offering a more 
accessible and intuitive user experience. The 
app features an enhanced interface with easyto-understand buttons, increased use of 
visuals, and streamlined access to essential 
banking services. As the first initiative of its 
kind among Hong Kong banks, the app has 
been successful in engaging over 663,000 
unique users since its launch in October 2022.
We are committed to improving accessibility 
across our digital channels and continuously 
review our browser-based websites and 
mobile banking services against the Web 
Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.1 AA 
standards. We promote digital accessibility by 
offering educational resource. In 2024 we 
launched the Accessibility Hub, a multi-award 
winning accessibility awareness e-learning 
content, promoting digital accessibility to the 
general public, attracting circa 150,000 views 
as of September 2024. Also since launch, 
more than 1,000 individuals across 140 
companies globally have participated in our 
specialised digital accessibility Training 1000 
Programme.
Supporting customers extends beyond our 
digital channels and we recognise that not all 
disabilities are visible. We rolled out our 
Hidden Disabilities Sunflower Lanyard Scheme 
to two additional markets this year – Singapore 
and the UAE – expanding it beyond the UK, 
Hong Kong, the Channel Islands and Australia. 
The lanyard indicates that an individual may 
need a little more help, support or time.
In 2024 two UK branches, Loughborough and 
Sheffield, received awards for their accessible 
and inclusive branch design. We are proud to 
be recognised by the Financial Times Diversity 
in Finance Awards, the Construction Industry 
Council and the Business Disability Forum for 
our work to improve accessibility, equity and 
inclusion in UK financial services.
We continue to introduce accessibility features 
and designs (e.g. a curved notch and braille 
dots) to our card products across the globe to 
support people with visual impairments, 
learning difficulties, and colour blindness. In 
2024, we introduced accessibility features in 
India, Philippines and Indonesia resulting in a 
total of 20 markets where those features are 
now available. 
For the second year HSBC sponsored and 
hosted the annual AbilityNet’s Techshare Pro 
Conference, Europe's largest event for the 
accessibility and disability inclusion 
community, at our Group Head Office in 
London. Over 1,600 individuals attended the 
event (in person or online) globally.
Supporting women
UK CMB launched a Women’s Business 
Growth Initiative Programme to support 
women in scaling their businesses and 
provide access to funding, making £250m 
available for lending, education and 
networking opportunities. The aim of the 
support is to help narrow the credit gap for 
women-led businesses, which is estimated to 
be valued at $1.7tn globally.
In Mexico and Uruguay, our Mujeres Al 
Mundo programme helps to address gender 
gaps by providing businesswomen access to 
funding, education and networking. In 2024 
we provided over $190m in sustainable 
financing to support women-owned 
enterprises in both countries. We also won 
the 2024 Financial Alliance for Women’s 
‘Outstanding Contributor’ award for enabling 
full financial access for women and unlocking 
huge value in the Female Economy.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
71
2024
2023
2022
ESG review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Engaging with our communities
Helping to build a more inclusive and resilient society
We have a long-standing commitment to 
support the communities in which we 
operate. We aim to empower people and 
communities to develop the skills and 
knowledge needed to thrive in the future. 
Through the global reach of our charitable 
partnerships we bring together diverse 
people, ideas and perspectives that help us 
open up opportunities and build a more 
inclusive world.
Building community and future skills
We work with charity partners to initiate 
programmes that help people and 
communities respond to opportunities and 
challenges as global economies transition 
towards a low-carbon future. In 2024, these 
included:
– Continuing a partnership with the British 
Council in Brazil, Mexico, India, Indonesia 
and Vietnam, and in Australia, India and 
Malaysia with The King’s Trust Group, to 
empower young, marginalised people with 
the skills needed to excel in the green 
economy.
– In India, HSBC collaborated with two 
charities to help enhance sustainability in 
the handloom and apparel sectors, 
benefiting 10,000 weavers. Our initiatives 
focused on adopting energy-efficient 
practices, reducing water pollution, 
promoting natural fibre products, and 
increasing the use of natural dyes.
– HSBC Continental Europe collaborated with 
Junior Achievement Europe to launch the 
Climate Resilience Programme, which aims 
to provide educational opportunities related 
to innovations in climate resilience for 
young people in France, Italy and Malta.
We also work with our charity partners to 
help strengthen the resilience of 
communities where we operate. Initiatives 
launched in 2024 included:
– ‘Saving for Good’, in partnership with INJAZ 
Al Arab, which teaches financial literacy 
fundamentals to 2,386 low-income workers 
and the large migrant worker population in 
the MENA region.
– A new financial literacy curriculum in Hong 
Kong that aims to strengthen the financial 
management knowledge of elderly learners 
and provide a better understanding of 
fintech applications and awareness of 
online fraud.
– We responded to disaster relief appeals to 
support efforts in Bangladesh, Central 
Europe, Mexico, the Middle East, Spain, 
Taiwan, Thailand, the USA and Vietnam. 
Community engagement and 
volunteering
We offer paid volunteering days, and 
encourage our people to offer their time, 
skills and knowledge to causes within their 
communities. In 2024, our colleagues gave 
over 254,000 hours to community activities 
during work hours. Examples of volunteering 
efforts in 2024 included:
– around 260 employees supported 
Waterkeeper, a US-based environmental 
non-profit, with 700 hours volunteered 
across 16 events in the country; and
– more than 200 employees acted as 
mentors for marginalised youth in support 
of the Strive and Rise Programme in Hong 
Kong.
Charitable giving in 2024 (%) 
Social, including Future Skills: 29%
Environment, including the Climate 
Solutions Partnership: 40%
Local Priorities: 21%
Disaster relief and other giving: 10%
Total cash giving towards charitable 
programmes
$94.7m
Hours volunteered during work time
>254,000
People projected to be reached through 
our social and future skills programme
>928,000
Resilient Community Environment Initiative helps to 
build bio-diverse Beijing Palace Museum
Established in October 2023, the HSBC Philanthropy Foundation Beijing aims to build 
inclusive and resilient communities by focusing on the development of children, support for 
disabled elderly people, promoting employability and livelihoods, and building a resilient ecoenvironment in communities. 
In 2024, the Foundation’s ‘HSBC Resilient Community Environment Initiative’ was extended 
to include the Palace Museum in Beijing’s Forbidden City. Altogether 2,243 square metres of 
green space and a 118-square-metre pond in the Museum’s Cining Garden were renovated 
and populated with diverse local species to form a healthy and resilient ecosystem. Visitors 
to the Forbidden City have benefited from the enhanced scenery since the second half of 
2024.
ESG review | Social 
72
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Governance
Acting responsibly
We remain committed to high standards of governance. We work 
alongside our regulators and recognise our contribution to building 
healthy and sustainable societies.
At a glance
Our relationship
We act on our responsibility to run our 
business in a way that upholds high 
standards of corporate governance. 
Customer experience is at the heart of how 
we operate. It is imperative that we treat our 
customers well, that we listen, and that we 
act to resolve complaints quickly and fairly. 
We measure customer satisfaction through 
net promoter scores across each of our global 
businesses, listen carefully to customer 
feedback so we know where we need to 
improve, and take steps to do this. Our 
customer satisfaction performance improved 
in many markets in which we operate, 
although we still have work to do to improve 
our rank position against competitors.
We are committed to working with our 
regulators to manage the safety of the 
financial system, adhering to the spirit and 
the letter of the rules and regulations 
governing our industry. 
We strive to meet our responsibilities to 
society, including through being transparent 
in our approach to paying taxes. We also seek 
to ensure we respect human rights in our 
workplace and our supply chains, and 
continually work to improve our compliance 
management capabilities.
 For further details of our corporate governance, 
see our corporate governance report on page 
236.
In this section
Setting high 
standards of 
governance 
How ESG is governed
We expect that our approach to ESG governance is likely to continue to 
develop, in line with our evolving approach to ESG matters and 
stakeholder expectations.
 Page 74
Human rights
Our respect for human rights
We have continued to develop our understanding of our salient human 
rights issues and associated risk management.
 Page 75
Customer 
experience
Customer satisfaction
While we are positioned among the top three banks in 58% of our key 
markets within WPB and CMB, we recognise the need to improve our 
customer experience further to enhance our competitive ranking.
 Page 77
How we listen
We aim to be open and transparent in how we track, record and manage 
complaints.
 Page 78
Integrity, conduct 
and fairness
Safeguarding the
financial system
We have continued our efforts to combat financial crime and reduce its 
impact on our organisation, customers and the communities that we 
serve.
 Page 80
Whistleblowing
Our global whistleblowing channel, HSBC Confidential, allows our 
colleagues and other stakeholders to raise concerns confidentially.
 Page 80
A responsible approach to 
tax
We seek to pay our fair share of tax in all jurisdictions in which we 
operate.
 Page 81
Conduct: Our product 
responsibilities
Our conduct approach guides us to do the right thing and to focus on the 
impact we have on our customers and the financial markets in which we 
operate.
 Page 82
Our approach with
our suppliers
We require suppliers to meet our third-party risk compliance standards 
and assess them to identify any financial stability concerns.
 Page 82
Safeguarding data
Data privacy
We are committed to protecting the data we process, in accordance with 
the laws and regulations of the markets in which we operate.
 Page 83
Cybersecurity
We invest in our business and technical controls to help prevent, detect 
and mitigate cyber-threats.
 Page 84
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
73
ESG review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Setting high standards of governance TCFD
How ESG is governed 
The Board takes overall responsibility for ESG 
strategy, overseeing executive management 
in developing the approach, execution and 
associated reporting. Progress against our 
ESG ambitions is reviewed through Board 
discussion and review of key topics, such as 
updates on sustainability infrastructure 
finance and employee sentiment. The Board 
is regularly provided with specific updates on 
ESG matters, including the sustainability 
execution programme, human rights and 
workforce engagement. Board members 
receive ESG-related training as part of their 
induction and ongoing development, and 
seek out further opportunities to build their 
skills and experience in this area. For further 
details of Board members’ ESG skills and 
experience, see page 237. For further details 
of their induction and training in 2024, see 
page 250. 
In October 2024, we enhanced our ESG 
governance with the establishment of a new 
Sustainability Working Group (‘SWG’) of the 
HSBC Holdings Board, with an initial duration 
of 12 months. The SWG is comprised of five 
non-executive Directors, along with 
attendance by other executives. At the 
executive level, the governance activity was 
streamlined with the removal of the 
Sustainability Execution Committee, with its 
activity managed within the project team. We 
expect that our approach to ESG governance 
is likely to continue to develop, in line with 
our evolving approach to ESG matters and 
stakeholder expectations. 
The diagram on the right provides an 
illustration of our ESG governance process, 
including how the Board’s strategy on climate 
is cascaded and implemented throughout the 
organisation. It identifies examples of forums 
that manage both climate-related 
opportunities and risks, along with their 
responsibilities and the responsible chair. The 
structure of the process is similar for the 
escalation of problems, with issues either 
resolved in a given forum or raised to the 
appropriate level of governance with 
appropriate scope and authority.
Given the wide-ranging remit of ESG matters, 
the governance activities are managed 
through a combination of specialist 
governance infrastructure and regular 
meetings and committees, where 
appropriate. These include the Group 
Disclosure and Controls Committee and 
Group Audit Committee, which provide 
oversight for the scope and content of ESG 
disclosures, and the Group People 
Committee, which provides oversight support 
for the Group’s approach to performance 
management. 
For some areas, such as climate where our 
approach is more advanced, dedicated 
governance activities exist to support the 
wide range of activities.
The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer 
and the chief risk officers of our PRAregulated businesses are the senior 
managers responsible for climate financial 
risks under the UK Senior Managers Regime. 
Climate risks are considered in the Group 
Risk Management Meeting and the Group 
Risk Committee, with scheduled updates 
provided, as well as detailed reviews of 
material matters, such as climate-related 
stress-testing exercises.
ESG review | Governance 
74
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
How HSBC’s climate 
strategy is cascaded
Opportunities
Risks
Board level governance
Group Board 
Group Audit Committee
Group Risk Committee
Specialist Board governance
Sustainability Working Group
Provides guidance on the Group-wide medium- and longer-term sustainability strategy, 
including our progress towards our net zero ambitions, taking into account key factors such 
as risk appetite, commerciality, capability and data. The group will also oversee progress 
against the strategy, including financing and supporting clients’ transitions. The group will 
provide guidance on target setting, policy review, financing and investing. 
Chair: Independent non-executive Director - Geraldine Buckingham
Management level governance
ESG Committee
Has oversight of ESG strategy, policy, 
material commitments and external 
disclosure. Oversees and monitors 
progress against ESG strategy, 
policies, plans, targets, commitments 
and execution processes. Reports to 
the SWG and Board on progress on 
the commitments, deliverables and 
targets under the sustainability 
execution programme.
Co-Chairs: Group CEO and Group 
Chief Sustainability Officer
Group Risk Management Meeting
Oversees the enterprise-wide 
management of all risks, including 
updates relating to the Group’s 
climate risk profile and risk appetite, 
top and emerging climate risks, and 
key climate initiatives.
Chair: Group Chief Risk and 
Compliance Officer
Regional, global business and group infrastructure
Examples of ESG-related management governance
The following governance bodies support management in its delivery of ESG activities.
Sustainable Execution 
Programme
Oversees the global 
delivery of climate 
strategy through 10 
modules.
Chair: Global Head of 
Sustainability 
Transformation
Group Reputational Risk 
Committee
Provides recommendations 
and advice on significant 
reputational risk matters 
with impact across the 
Group.
Chair: Group Chief Risk 
and Compliance Officer
Human Rights 
Steering Committee
Oversees the Group’s 
evolving approach to 
human rights and 
provides enhanced 
governance.
Chair: Group Chief Risk 
and Compliance Officer

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Human rights
Our respect for human rights
As set out in our Human Rights Statement, 
we recognise the role of business in 
respecting human rights. Our approach is 
guided by the UN Guiding Principles on 
Business and Human Rights (‘UNGPs’) and 
the OECD Guidelines for Multinational 
Enterprises on Responsible Business 
Conduct.
Our salient human rights issues
We continue to develop our understanding of 
our salient human rights issues. These are 
the human rights at risk of the most severe 
negative impact through our business 
activities and relationships.
An extensive review of our salient human 
rights issues conducted in 2022 identified five 
human rights risks inherent to HSBC’s 
business globally, and five types of activity 
through which such risks might arise. These 
are represented in the adjacent table.
In 2023, building on this assessment, we 
provided practical guidance and training, 
where relevant, to our colleagues across the 
Group on how to identify and manage human 
rights risk.
In 2024, we focused on our approach to 
human rights risk management relating to the 
goods and services we buy from third parties 
and in respect of our business customers. 
We issued human rights due diligence good 
practice guidance tailored to procurement and 
corresponding high-level guidance for staff 
who manage our relationships with our 
business customers.
Managing risks to human rights
In 2024, we continued the process of 
adapting our risk management procedures to 
reflect what we learned from the work on 
salient human rights issues and began 
embedding the related guidance documents 
described above.
We developed a human rights due diligence 
operating procedure for procurement globally. 
The procedure describes the due diligence 
process undertaken to identify suppliers 
where the risk of adverse human rights 
impact is considered higher and the process 
to be followed to review and mitigate the 
risk. We built on the human rights supplier 
audit pilots undertaken in 2023 in our AsiaPacific and Latin America regions with an 
expanded programme of human rights audits 
in 11 countries across Asia-Pacific, Latin 
America, the Middle East and North Africa.
We continued to develop our in-house 
capability on human rights with the launch of 
further online resources for all staff and 
bespoke human rights training for key 
colleagues, including those managing 
relationships with suppliers and business 
customers, and those with responsibility for 
overseeing risk management processes. 
For further details of the actions taken to respect 
the right to decent work, see our 2024 Annual 
Statement under the UK Modern Slavery Act at 
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-andresponsible-business/modern-slavery-act.
For further details of the actions taken to respect
the right to equality and freedom from 
discrimination, see ’Our approach to inclusion’ 
on page 64.
Sustainability risk policies
Some of our business customers operate in 
sectors in which the risk of adverse human 
rights impact is considered greater. Our 
sustainability risk policies consider human 
rights issues such as forced labour, harmful 
or exploitative child labour, workers’ rights 
and land rights.
Through our membership of international 
certification schemes, such as the Forestry 
Stewardship Council, the Roundtable on 
Sustainable Palm Oil and the Equator 
Principles, we recognise standards aimed at 
respecting human rights.
We regularly review our sustainability risk 
policies and policy implementation as we 
apply our policies in practice.
 For further details, see our sustainability risk 
policies at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-andresponsible-business/managing-risk/
sustainability-risk.
Financial crime controls 
Our financial crime risk framework also helps 
to mitigate the risk of being associated with 
adverse human rights impacts, by helping to 
identify and assess the financial crime risk 
associated with our customers, employees 
and third parties.
For further details of how we fight financial
crime, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-andresponsible-business/fighting-financial-crime.
Other principles 
HSBC’s Principles for the Ethical Use of Data 
and Artificial Intelligence include how we 
seek to respect the right to privacy while 
making use of these technologies.
For further details see www.hsbc.com/-/files/
hsbc/our-approach/risk-and-responsibility/
pdfs/240715-hsbc-principles-for-the-ethical-useof-data-and-ai.pdf?download=1.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
75
Our salient human rights issues
Illustration of HSBC Group’s inherent human rights risks mapped to business activities.
Inherent human rights risks
HSBC activities
Employer
Buyer
Provider of products 
and services
Investor
Personal 
customers
Business 
customers
Right to 
decent 
work
Freedom from forced labour
u
u
u
Just and favourable conditions of work
u
u
u
u
Right to health and safety at work
u
u
u
u
Right to equality and freedom from discrimination
u
u
u
u
u
Right to privacy
u
u
u
Cultural and land rights
u
u
u
Right to dignity and justice
u
u
u
u
u
ESG review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Our respect for human rights continued
Supporting change
We continued to participate in industry 
forums, including the Thun Group of Banks, 
which is an informal group that seeks to 
promote understanding of the UNGPs within 
the sector, and the UN Global Compact 
Human Rights Working Group.
HSBC has been a member of the Mekong 
Club since 2016. We are a participant in their 
financial services working group, and we use 
their informative typological toolkits, 
infographics, and other multimedia resources 
covering current and emerging issues. Our 
compliance teams regularly collaborate and 
engage with the Mekong Club in designing 
Group-wide knowledge sharing and training 
sessions.
Investments
HSBC Asset Management acknowledges the 
important role that business plays in 
respecting human rights. If mismanaged or 
left unaddressed, human rights violations 
may materialise as business risks, negatively 
impacting investee companies’ operations, 
supply chain or brand. These may in turn 
present risk both to client investments and 
reputation.
HSBC Asset Management engages with 
companies prioritised for purposeful 
engagement under its Stewardship Plan on 
core themes material to investee companies, 
including human rights. Engagements may be 
on a one-on-one basis, or collaboratively with 
other investors. In 2024, it has developed 
engagement guidelines, highlighting its 
expectations of good practice for companies, 
where human rights may be a material issue. 
Further details can be found in its 
Stewardship Plan. The Global Voting 
Guidelines provide an overview of its 
approach to exercising its shareholder rights 
in respect of ESG issues, including human 
rights.
In 2024, HSBC Asset Management joined the 
Investor Initiative on Human Rights Data 
(‘II-HRD’), a collaborative engagement 
initiative that aims to improve the depth and 
breadth of corporate human rights data 
available to investors and the transparency of 
human rights assessment criteria. This 
initiative seeks to address the industry-wide 
challenges commonly cited, including lack of 
transparent ESG ratings methodologies by 
commercial data providers and insufficient 
inclusion of human rights data.
 For HSBC Asset Management’s Stewardship 
Plan, see: www.assetmanagement.hsbc.co.uk/
en/institutional-investor/about-us/responsibleinvesting/-/media/files/attachments/uk/policies/
stewardship-plan-uk.pdf.
Measuring effectiveness
Metric
2024
2023
Contracted suppliers who either confirmed adherence to the code of 
conduct or provided their own alternative that was accepted by our 
Global Procurement function
96.7%
95%
Employees who have received training on one or more aspects of human 
rights
11,884
8,176
 For further inclusion metrics, see page 64 in this ESG review.
Supporting those impacted and those 
potentially at risk
We continued to expand our Survivor Bank 
programme, which has now supported over 
3,500 (a more than 15% increase since last 
year) survivors of modern slavery and human 
trafficking in the UK. 
Our Wealth and Personal Banking team 
continues to deliver training to raise 
awareness of modern slavery, enabling 
employees to spot signs of abuse and 
escalate their concerns through established 
channels. In addition, our customer-facing 
employees globally are trained to identify and 
support vulnerable customers as part of their 
induction training.
For further details of our work to support 
vulnerable communities, see page 71.
Effectiveness
The table below includes some indicative 
metrics we use to measure year-on-year 
improvement to our human rights processes.
ESG review | Governance 
76
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Customer experience
We remain committed to improving 
customers’ experiences. In 2024, we 
gathered feedback from over one million 
customers across our three global businesses 
to help us understand our strengths and the 
areas we need to focus on. We were ranked 
among the top three banks or improved our 
ranking against our competitors in 58% of our 
six key markets across WPB and CMB1 in line 
with 2023. 
Customer satisfaction
Listening to drive improvement
We have continued to embed our feedback 
system so we can better listen, learn and act 
on customer feedback. We use the net 
promoter score (‘NPS’) and customer 
satisfaction to provide a consistent measure 
of our performance. NPS is measured by 
subtracting the percentage of ‘detractors’ 
from the percentage of ‘promoters’. 
‘Detractors’ are customers who provide a 
score of 0 to 6, and ‘promoters’ are 
customers who provide a score of 9 to 10 to 
the question: ‘On a scale on 0 to 10, how 
likely is it that you would recommend HSBC 
to a friend or colleague’. 
We run studies that allow us to benchmark 
ourselves against other banks. We try to 
make it as easy as possible for customers to 
give us feedback, leveraging our use of digital 
real-time surveys to capture insight. By 
sharing this and other feedback with our 
front-line teams, and allowing them to 
respond directly to customers, we are 
improving how we address issues and realise 
opportunities. 
We continue to run dedicated global forums 
to provide oversight of our retail and business 
customers’ experiences and promote 
continuous improvement. This helps ensure 
we use feedback in all aspects of how we run 
our business, and prioritise initiatives that 
matter most to our customers. 
How we fared
In WPB, we were ranked among the top 
three banks against our competitors in Hong 
Kong and mainland China. In Hong Kong, we 
remained first overall against our competitors, 
and improved our NPS score. This was driven 
by improved scores across all customer 
segments. 
Our NPS rank improved in the UK and 
Singapore. This was largely driven by 
improved scores among our affluent 
customers. In Mexico our rank remained 
stable, and in India our rank declined, largely 
driven by our personal banking customers.
In our private bank, our global NPS increased 
to 48 points, compared with 42 points in 
2023. All the existing markets included in the 
programme increased their scores from 2023 
and we have included India and UAE for the 
first time this year.
In CMB, we were ranked among the top 
three banks against our competitors in three 
of our six key markets. We ranked first in 
Hong Kong and as a top three bank in 
Singapore and India. In mainland China, we 
ranked outside the top three but ranked first 
among international banks. In Mexico, we 
have dropped from 3rd to 4th position due to 
improved competitor performance in 
business banking. 
After an improved rank position in 2023, our 
overall performance in the UK has stabilised 
in 2024. Even though we sit outside of the 
top 3 in business banking, we are still ranked 
in the top 3 among mid-market enterprise and 
large corporates in the UK. We remain 
committed to improving our NPS 
performance across markets, with action 
plans developed centrally and locally.
In GBM, we have one of the highest 
satisfaction scores against our international 
competitors. We were ranked in the top three 
banks globally, with high satisfaction scores 
based on our digital capabilities.
Number of markets in top three or 
improving rank
1,2
2024
WPB
4 out of 6
CMB
3 out of 6
1 The six markets comprise: the UK, Hong Kong, 
Mexico, mainland China, India and Singapore. 
Rank positions are provided using data gathered 
through third-party research agencies.
2 We benchmark our NPS against our key 
competitors to create a rank position in each 
market. This table is based on the number of 
markets where we are in the top three or have an 
improved rank from the previous year.
Acting on feedback 
In 2024, we have continued to focus on 
developing our products and services, and 
enhancing our digital capabilities to improve 
customer experience. 
Wealth and Personal Banking
We continue to redesign our international 
products and services to make it quicker and 
easier to bank internationally. This year we 
have improved the way our customers make 
international payments. Customers can send 
funds directly to mobile wallets from their 
banking app, with customers now able to 
send international payments with just the 
recipients’ name alongside their phone 
number or email address.
Commercial Banking
Global Payments Solutions (‘GPS’) 
implemented a new globally aligned client 
service model focused on delivering an 
enhanced front-to-back client experience. We 
leverage data to improve our engagements 
with customers and are investing in 
technology to drive process efficiencies, 
reduce query volumes and drive automation. 
Our new Trade Solutions platform (‘HTS’) lets 
us quickly deploy new capabilities (like 
TradePay) across multiple markets. It helps 
provide a consistent user experience and 
enables easy connectivity to other platform 
ecosystems.
In sustainability we continue to build an endto-end customer journey through launching 
new propositions that incentivise and reward 
customers for improving their ESG 
performance, such as the HSBC Buildings 
Sustainability Assessment Tool in the UK and 
Sustainability Improvement Loan. In our 
Customer Channels division, we have 
deployed AI and personalisation solutions to 
improve proactive engagement and the 
speed of query resolution. We have increased 
adoption of customer digital capabilities to 
improve fulfilment turnaround times. We 
have also increased the resilience of our 
digital channels and further reduced customer 
fraud risk. These actions are helping to build 
greater digital trust with our customers and 
thereby improving customer experience.
Global Banking and Markets
We continued our efforts to support our 
clients in their sustainability and transition 
journey by maintaining our Top 5 book-runner 
position globally in green, sustainable and 
social bonds, and by extending the 
sustainability-focused product and solutions 
range beyond the labelled products suite. We 
have refined our priority and core coverage 
model, including piloting a range of priority 
client squads to drive specific client goals. 
We continue to invest in our coverage 
enablement strategy, including thought 
leadership and transaction banking solutions.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
77
ESG review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

How we listen
To improve how we serve our customers, we 
must be open to feedback and acknowledge 
when things go wrong. We continue to adapt 
at pace to provide support for customers 
facing new challenges, new ways of working 
and those that require enhanced care needs.
We aim to be open and consistent in how we 
track, record and manage complaints, 
although as we serve a wide range of 
customers – from personal banking and 
wealth customers to large corporates, 
institutions and governments – we tailor our 
approach in each of our global businesses. As 
the table on the right demonstrates, we have 
a consistent set of principles that enable us 
to remain customer-focused throughout the 
complaints process. 
For further details of complaints volumes by 
geography, see our ESG Data Pack at 
www.hsbc.com/esg.
How we handle complaints
Our principles
Our actions
Making it easy 
for customers 
to complain
Customers can complain through the channel that best suits them. We provide a 
point of contact along with clear information on next steps and timescales. 
Acknowledging 
complaints
All colleagues welcome complaints as opportunities and exercise empathy to 
acknowledge our customers’ issues. Complaints are escalated if they cannot be 
resolved at first point of contact. 
Keeping the 
customer up to 
date
We set clear expectations and keep customers informed throughout the complaint 
resolution process through their preferred channel.
Ensuring fair 
resolution
We thoroughly investigate all complaints to address concerns and ensure the right 
outcome for our customers. 
Providing 
available rights
We provide customers with information on their rights and the appeal process if 
they are not satisfied with the outcome of the complaint. 
Undertaking 
root cause 
analysis
Complaint causes are analysed on a regular basis to identify and address any 
systemic issues and to inform process improvements. 
Wealth and Personal Banking 
In 2024, we received approximately 887,000 
complaints from customers in eight priority 
markets, and the ratio of complaints per 1,000 
customers per month in these markets 
decreased from 2.2 to 2.0. We had a reduction 
in complaints in our top three markets (the UK, 
Hong Kong and Mexico), which comprise 86% 
of complaints globally.
In the UK, complaints fell 9%. During 2024, 
our two key priorities continued to be 
complaints prevention, and improving the 
quality of resolution of the complaints we 
received. We made good progress in both 
areas, driven by targeted intervention in 
priority areas and ongoing regular oversight. 
This has included identifying prominent 
complaint themes – such as telephony 
customer experience, transaction disputes and 
international payment processing – and 
allocating them to individual executives as 
accountable ‘owners’ to remedy the root 
cause. 
The decrease in complaints in Hong Kong was 
primarily driven by improvements in 
capabilities that make banking with HSBC 
easier for customers. A deeper customercentric culture, regular reviews, root cause 
analysis of customer feedback and greater 
collaboration across business lines to address 
emerging customer pain points, also 
contributed to the fall in complaints.  
In Mexico, there was a 5.3% fall in the 
volume of total complaints in 2024 compared 
with 2023, with unrecognised debit card 
charges down by 9% despite an increase in 
transaction volumes. This was achieved 
through targeted actions, including improving 
fraud processes and the introduction of 
enhancements to the way customers receive 
purchase authorisations. 
In our private bank, we received 647 
complaints, an increase of 140 compared 
with 2023. This was largely due to the 
inclusion of complaint data for the private 
banking operation in India, which received 
128 complaints in 2024. Complaint data for 
this business was reported in WPB figures in 
2023. Banking products and service issues 
represented the largest volume of complaints 
overall, a high proportion of which were 
attributable to issues with payment 
processing and credit cards. Overall, the 
private bank resolved 646 complaints.
WPB complaint volumes
1 
(per 1,000 customers per month)
2024
2023
Total
2
2.0
2.2
UK
3
q
1.0
1.1
Hong Kong
3
q
0.7
0.9
Mexico
3
q
5.0
5.2
1 A complaint is any expression of dissatisfaction 
about WPB’s activities, products or services 
where a response or resolution is explicitly, or 
implicitly, expected.
2 
Priority markets in 2024 included: the UK, Hong 
Kong (excluding Hang Seng), Mexico, mainland 
China, India, UAE, Singapore and Australia, 
selected based on complaints volume, customer 
base and strategic importance among other 
factors. The 2023 total has been revised from 2.3 
to 2.2 due to a change in the composition of these 
eight priority markets.
3 The UK, Hong Kong and Mexico make up 86% 
of total complaints.
Acting on feedback 
In 2024, we continued to improve our capabilities and tools across the business to enhance the customer experience globally. By consistently 
measuring customer experience, we actively listen, learn and take action based on what our customers share with us. Additionally, we introduced 
a customer experience behavioural framework across the bank, aligned with HSBC’s core values. This framework supports our colleagues in 
meeting minimum service standards and prioritising customer experience in their daily routines. These efforts enable us to identify opportunities 
to continue to improve our customer experience and systematically track and measure our progress. 
ESG review | Governance 
78
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

How we listen continued
Commercial Banking 
In 2024 we received 46,276 customer and 
client complaints, an increase of 0.8% from 
2023. Of the overall volume, 32,748 came 
from HSBC UK, 8,779 from Asia-Pacific and 
the remainder from the rest of our global 
markets. 
The most common complaint related to 
servicing and transactions, with the largest 
volume of complaints globally coming from 
business banking customers, representing 
68.2% of our total complaints.
Although we have seen a minor increase in 
complaint volumes, this reflects 
improvements in the quality of our logging 
process and we have increased our 
understanding of the root cause of many 
complaints. In 2024, we enhanced training for 
our front-line colleagues to ensure they can 
accurately identify the differences between a 
complaint, query and feedback and upgraded 
our complaint reporting tools. For 2025, our 
focus will be on addressing the root cause of 
complaint trends, as well as improvements to 
our systems, processes and customer advice.
CMB complaint volumes
(000s)
2024
2023
Total
46.2
45.9
UK
1
q
32.7
33.8
Hong Kong
1
p
7.7
6.5
1 The UK and Hong Kong (excluding Hang Seng) 
account for 87% of total complaints.
 
Acting on feedback 
In 2024, we have further invested in comprehensive training programmes for our staff to ensure they are equipped with the skills and 
knowledge needed to manage complaints effectively. This includes training on active listening, empathy, identification and treatment of 
customers in financial difficulty and conflict resolution. All of our front-line teams globally went through this training to ensure that conduct and 
the customer are at the heart of our management of client feedback. We have implemented advanced complaint reporting tools that enable us 
to capture customer feedback more accurately and efficiently. These tools allow us to identify and address issues promptly. Within our Business 
Banking segment, we continue to work with front-line teams to identify and manage complaints better.
Global Banking and Markets 
In 2024, we received 1,838 customer 
complaints in Global Banking, an increase of 
18.4% from 2023. Of the overall complaint 
volumes, 37.6% came from Europe and 
28.9% came from Asia-Pacific. The most 
common complaint, at 34.2% of total 
complaints, related to transactions.
In Markets and Securities Services (‘MSS’) 
complaints decreased by 13.6% to 306. The 
majority of complaints were operational in 
nature and resolved in a timely manner. Of 
the overall MSS complaints, 49% came from 
Europe and 33.9% from Asia-Pacific, our two 
largest markets. 
GBM complaint volumes
1
2024
2023
Total
 
2,144 
1,906 
Global 
Banking
2
p
 
1,838 
1,552 
Global Markets 
and Securities 
Services
3 
q
 
306 
354
1 Globally, a complaint is any expression of 
dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, relating to 
the provision of, or failure to provide, a specific 
product or service or service activity. Within the 
UK, a complaint is any expression of 
dissatisfaction – whether justified or not – about 
our products, services or activities, which suggests 
we have caused (or might cause) financial loss, 
material distress or a material inconvenience. 
2 Global Banking also includes Global Payments 
Solutions (previously known as Global Liquidity 
and Cash Management) and complaints relating 
to payment operations.
3 Contains Global Research complaint volumes.
Acting on feedback 
In 2024, our focus has been to increase the capture and quality of complaints received within GBM. Our focus has been on doing deep dives 
into the quality of complaints received and delivering bespoke training on the complaint themes that we see. We have defined robust 
feedback loops allowing us to learn continuously from customer experiences and embed these into our processes. We regularly review and 
analyse complaint data to identify trends and implement improvements in our services. Although we have seen growth in complaint 
volumes, we are seeing higher levels of compliant quality and better decisions to address them in the first instance.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
79
ESG review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Integrity, conduct and fairness
Safeguarding the financial system
We have continued our efforts to combat 
financial crime and reduce its impact on our 
organisation, customers and the communities 
that we serve. Financial crime includes fraud, 
bribery and corruption, tax evasion, sanctions 
and export control violations and evasion, 
money laundering, terrorist financing and 
proliferation financing. 
We manage financial crime risk because it is 
the right thing to do to protect our customers, 
shareholders, staff, the communities in which 
we operate, as well as the integrity of the 
financial system on which we all rely. We have 
a financial crime risk management framework 
that is applicable across all global businesses 
and functions, and in all countries and territories 
in which we operate. The financial crime risk 
framework, which is overseen by the Board, is 
supported by our financial crime policy that is 
designed to enable adherence to applicable 
laws and regulations globally. Annual global 
mandatory training is provided to all colleagues, 
with additional targeted training tailored to 
certain individuals. We carry out regular risk 
assessments to identify where we need to 
respond to evolving financial crime threats, as 
well as to monitor and test our financial crime 
risk management programme.
We continue to invest in new technology; we 
are enhancing our fraud monitoring capability 
and our trade screening controls, and 
investing in the application of machine 
learning to improve the accuracy and 
timeliness of our detection capabilities. 
These new technologies should enhance our 
ability to respond effectively to unusual 
activity and be more granular in our risk 
assessments. 
Our anti-bribery and corruption policy
Our global financial crime policy requires that 
all activity must be: conducted without intent 
to bribe or corrupt; reasonable and 
transparent; considered to be neither lavish 
nor disproportionate to the professional 
relationship; appropriately documented with 
business rationale; and authorised at an 
appropriate level of seniority. Our global 
financial crime policy requires that we identify 
and mitigate the risk of our employees, 
customers and third parties committing 
bribery or corruption. Among other controls, 
we use risk assessments, due diligence and 
ongoing monitoring following a risk-based 
approach, to identify and help mitigate the 
risk that our customers are involved in, or use 
HSBC’s products or services, to commit 
bribery or corruption. In 2024, two former 
employees of an HSBC subsidiary in China 
were convicted of bribery-related offences 
and each received a fine and suspended 
sentence. The HSBC subsidiary in China selfreported this matter to the police and was not 
a subject of the police investigation or 
charges.
99%
Total percentage of permanent and nonpermanent employees who received financial 
crime training, including on anti-bribery and 
corruption.
Whistleblowing 
We want colleagues and stakeholders to 
have confidence in speaking up when they 
observe unlawful or unethical behaviour. We 
offer a range of speak-up channels to listen to 
the concerns of individuals and have a zero 
tolerance policy for acts of retaliation. 
Listening through whistleblowing 
channels
Our global whistleblowing channel, HSBC 
Confidential, is one of our speak-up channels, 
which allows colleagues and other 
stakeholders to raise concerns confidentially 
and, if preferred, anonymously (subject to 
local laws). In most of our markets, HSBC 
Confidential concerns are raised through an 
independent third party, offering 24/7 hotlines 
and a web portal in multiple languages. We 
also provide and monitor an external email 
address for concerns about accounting, 
internal financial controls or auditing matters 
(accountingdisclosures@hsbc.com). Concerns 
are investigated proportionately and 
independently, with action taken where 
appropriate. This can include disciplinary 
action, such as dismissal and adjustments to 
variable pay and performance ratings, or 
operational actions including changes to 
policies and procedures.
We continue to actively promote our full 
range of speak-up channels to colleagues to 
help ensure their concerns are handled 
through the most effective route. In 2024, 
13% fewer concerns were raised through 
HSBC Confidential compared with 2023. Of 
the concerns investigated through the HSBC 
Confidential channel in 2024, 66% related to 
individual behaviour and personal conduct, 
21% to security and fraud risks, 12% to 
compliance risks and less than 1% to other 
categories.
The Group Audit Committee has oversight of 
the Group’s whistleblowing arrangements, and 
the Chair of the Group Audit Committee acts 
as HSBC’s Whistleblowers’ Champion with 
responsibility for ensuring and overseeing the 
integrity, independence and effectiveness of 
the Group’s policies and procedures.
Regulatory Compliance sets the 
whistleblowing policy and procedures, and 
provides the Group Audit Committee with 
periodic updates on their effectiveness. 
Specialist teams and investigation functions 
own whistleblowing controls, with monitoring 
in place to determine control effectiveness. 
For further details of the role of the Group Audit 
Committee in relation to whistleblowing, 
including updates received in 2024 on 
operational effectiveness, see page 267.
HSBC Confidential concerns raised in 
2024: 
1,527
(2023: 1,746)
Substantiation rate of concerns 
investigated through HSBC Confidential 
in 2024:
35% 
(2023: 41%)
ESG review | Governance 
80
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
The scale of our work
Each month in 2024 we monitored 
approximately 900 million transactions 
for signs of financial crime. We 
performed daily screening of 
approximately 121 million customer 
records for sanctions exposure. In 2024, 
we filed over 113,000 suspicious activity 
reports to law enforcement and 
regulatory authorities where we 
identified potential financial crime.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

A responsible approach to tax 
We seek to pay our fair share of tax in all 
jurisdictions in which we operate, and to 
minimise the likelihood of customers using 
our products and services to evade or 
inappropriately avoid tax. We also abide by 
international protocols that affect our 
organisation. Our approach to tax and 
governance processes is designed to achieve 
these goals. 
Through adoption of the Group’s risk 
management framework, we seek to ensure 
that we do not adopt inappropriately taxmotivated transactions or products, and that 
tax planning is scrutinised and supported by 
genuine commercial activity. HSBC has no 
appetite for using aggressive tax structures. 
With respect to our own taxes, we are guided 
by the following principles:
– We are committed to applying both the 
letter and spirit of the law. This includes 
adherence to a variety of measures arising 
from the OECD Base Erosion and Profit 
Shifting initiative including the ‘Pillar Two’ 
global minimum tax rules that apply to the 
Group from 2024. These rules seek to 
ensure that the Group pays tax at a 
minimum rate of 15% in each jurisdiction in 
which it operates. We have identified 14 
jurisdictions that may have an effective tax 
rate below 15% in 2024. We continually 
monitor the number of active subsidiaries 
within each jurisdiction as part of our 
ongoing entity rationalisation programme. 
– We seek to ensure that our entities active 
in nil or low tax jurisdictions have clear 
business rationale for why they are based 
in these locations and appropriate 
transparency over their activities.
– We seek to have open and transparent 
relationships with all tax authorities. Given 
the size and complexity of our organisation, 
which operates across 58 jurisdictions, a 
number of areas of differing interpretation 
or disputes with tax authorities exist at any 
point in time. We cooperate with the 
relevant local tax authorities to mutually 
agree and resolve these in a timely manner.
With respect to our customers’ taxes, we are 
guided by the following principles:
– We have made considerable investments 
to support external tax transparency 
initiatives and reduce the risk of banking 
services being used to facilitate customer 
tax evasion. Initiatives include the US 
Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, the 
OECD Standard for Automatic Exchange of 
Financial Account Information (‘Common 
Reporting Standard’), and the UK legislation 
on the corporate criminal offence of failing 
to prevent the facilitation of tax evasion.
– We implement processes that aim to 
ensure that inappropriately tax-motivated 
products and services are not provided to 
our customers.
Our tax contributions
The Group effective tax rate for the year of 
22.6% was higher than in the previous year 
(2023: 19.1%). The effective tax rate for the 
year increased by 4.8% due to the nondeductible loss in respect of the sale of our 
business in Argentina, and decreased by 
3.6% due to the non-taxable gain on the 
disposal of HSBC Canada. Further details are 
provided on page 380. 
Tax paid in 2024 is higher than in 2023 mainly 
because the Hong Kong Inland Revenue 
Department did not issue HSBC’s corporation 
tax assessments for 2023 until January 2024, 
at which time they were paid. The equivalent 
assessments for 2024 were received and 
paid in December 2024.
The UK bank levy charge for 2024 of $249m 
was lower than the charge of $339m in 2023, 
as the charge for 2023 was increased by 
adjustments arising upon filing prior year 
returns.
As highlighted below, in addition to paying 
$9.2bn (2023: $6.8bn) of our own tax 
liabilities during 2024, we collected taxes of 
$10.1bn (2023: $10.8bn) on behalf of 
governments around the world. A more 
detailed geographical breakdown of the taxes 
paid in 2024 is provided in the ESG Data 
Pack. 
Taxes paid – by type of tax
Tax on profits $6,080m (2023: $3,685m)
Withholding taxes $667m (2023: $432m)
Employer taxes $1,003m (2023: $1,052m)
Bank levy $135m (2023: $57m)
Irrecoverable VAT $1,098m (2023: $1,298m)
Other duties and levies $229m1 (2023: $249m)
Taxes paid – by region
Europe $2,780m (2023: $2,945m)
Asia-Pacific $5,020m (2023: $2,488m)
Middle East, North Africa 
and Türkiye $421m (2023: $296m)
North America $291m (2023: $389m)
Latin America $700m (2023: $655m)
Taxes collected – by region
Europe $4,214m (2023: $4,714m)
Asia-Pacific $3,223m (2023: $3,226m)
Middle East, North Africa 
and Türkiye $118m (2023: $77m)
North America $1,025m (2023: $1,119m)
Latin America $1,483m (2023: $1,680m)
1 Other duties and levies includes property taxes of $76m (2023: $91m).
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
81
ESG review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Conduct: Our product responsibilities 
Our conduct approach guides us to do the 
right thing and to focus on the impact we 
have for our customers and the financial 
markets in which we operate. It is embedded 
into the way we design, approve, market and 
manage products and services, with a focus 
on five clear outcomes:
– We understand our customers’ needs.
– We provide products and services that offer 
a fair exchange of value.
– We service customers’ ongoing needs and 
put it right if we make a mistake.
– We act with integrity in the financial 
markets we operate in.
– We operate resiliently and securely to avoid 
harm to customers and markets.
We train all our colleagues on our approach to 
customer and market conduct, helping to 
ensure our conduct outcomes are part of 
everything we do.
Designing products and services 
Our approach to product development is set 
out in our policies and provides a clear basis 
on which informed decisions can be made. 
Our policies require that products must be fitfor-purpose throughout their existence, 
meeting regulatory requirements and 
associated conduct outcomes. 
Our approach includes:
– designing products to meet identified 
customer needs;
– managing products through governance 
processes, helping to ensure they meet 
customers’ needs and deliver a fair 
exchange of value;
– periodically reviewing products to help 
ensure they remain relevant and perform in 
line with expectations we have set; and
– improving, or withdrawing from sale, products 
which do not meet our customers’ needs or 
no longer meet our high standards.
Meeting our customers’ needs 
Our policies and procedures set standards to 
help ensure that we consider and meet 
customer needs. These include: 
– enabling customers to understand the key 
features of products and services;
– enabling customers to make informed 
decisions before purchasing a product or 
service; and
– ensuring processes are in place for the 
provision of advice to customers. 
They help us provide the right outcomes for 
customers, including those with enhanced 
care needs. This enables us to support 
customers who are more vulnerable to 
external impacts.
Financial promotion
Our policies help to ensure that in the sale of 
products and services, we use marketing and 
product materials that support customer 
understanding and fair customer outcomes. 
This includes providing information on 
products and services that is fair, clear and 
not misleading. We also have controls in 
place to help ensure our cross-border 
marketing complies with relevant regulatory 
requirements.
Product governance 
Our product management policy covers 
the entire lifecycle of the product. This 
helps ensure that our products meet our 
requirements before we sell them and 
allows continued risk-based oversight of 
product performance against the 
intended customer outcomes.
When we decide to withdraw a product 
from sale, we aim to consider the 
implications for our existing customers 
and agree actions to help them achieve a 
fair outcome where appropriate.
Our approach with our suppliers
We maintain global standards and procedures 
for the onboarding and use of third-party 
suppliers. We require suppliers to meet our 
third-party risk compliance standards and 
assess them to identify any financial stability 
concerns.
Sustainable procurement 
Supporting and engaging with our supply 
chain is vital to the development of our 
sustainable procurement processes. In 2024: 
– We continued gathering carbon emission 
data from our suppliers through CDP 
(formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) and 
introduced a new data collection method to 
simplify and improve our supplier outreach 
for scope 3 data collection.
– We began implementing decarbonisation 
plans for our three highest emitting 
procurement categories: technology; real 
estate; and professional services. We 
engaged suppliers on their emissions 
disclosure plans and carbon reduction 
targets. We outlined what we expect of our 
suppliers on these aspects and explored 
joint opportunities.
– We hosted a Supply Chain Decarbonisation 
Day with senior managers at HSBC and 
suppliers to facilitate collaboration and 
discuss innovative decarbonisation solutions 
with some of our largest suppliers.
– We have started developing a biodiversity 
strategy that aims to integrate biodiversity 
considerations into our procurement 
practices and define a clear set of 
requirements for our suppliers. 
– Since its launch in 2023, the Supplier 
Diversity Portal is now live in a number of 
jurisdictions. Further expansion is planned 
for 2025 to reach a wider demographic of 
diverse-owned suppliers (at least 51% 
owned, managed or controlled by a 
historically and locally under-represented 
group). For further details, see 
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-andresponsible-business/working-with-suppliers.
– To increase engagement with diverseowned suppliers, we introduced a 
development programme. The programme 
is designed to empower diverse-owned 
suppliers to effectively engage with large 
corporations, including HSBC, and supports 
our ambition to further diversify our supply 
chain, to represent the communities that we 
operate in.
Supplier code of conduct 
Our supplier code of conduct (‘the code’) was 
refreshed in 2024, setting out our ambitions 
and areas of focus on the environment, 
diversity and human rights, and outlines the 
minimum standards we expect of our 
suppliers on these issues. We continue to 
formalise adherence to the code with clauses 
in our supplier contracts, which support the 
right to audit and act if a breach is discovered. 
At the end of 2024, 96.7% of approximately 
10,200 contracted suppliers had either 
confirmed adherence to the code or provided 
their own alternative that was accepted by 
our Global Procurement function.
 For further details of the number of suppliers in 
each geographical region, see the ESG Data 
Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
ESG review | Governance 
82
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Safeguarding data 
Data privacy
We are committed to protecting the data we 
process, in accordance with the laws and 
regulations of the markets in which we 
operate.
Our approach rests on having the right talent, 
technology, systems, controls, policies and 
processes to ensure appropriate 
management of privacy risk. Our Group-wide 
data risk policy and principles provide a 
consistent global approach to managing data 
privacy risk, and must be applied by all our 
global businesses and functions. Our privacy 
principles are available at www.hsbc.com/
who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/
managing-risk/operational-risk.
We conduct regular employee training and 
awareness sessions on data privacy and 
security issues throughout the year. This 
includes mandatory training that is updated 
regularly for all our global colleagues, with 
additional training sessions where needed to 
keep up to speed with new developments. 
Where relevant, we encourage our data 
privacy employees to obtain external 
accreditation.
We provide transparency to our customers 
and stakeholders on how we collect, use and 
manage their personal data, and their 
associated rights. Where relevant, we work 
with third parties to help ensure adequate 
protections are provided, in line with our data 
risk policy and as required under applicable 
data privacy laws. We offer a broad range of 
channels in the markets where we operate, 
through which customers and stakeholders 
can raise concerns about the privacy of their 
data.
Our dedicated privacy teams report to senior 
management on data privacy risks and 
issues, and provide oversight for global data 
privacy programmes. We review data privacy 
regularly at multiple governance forums, 
including at Board level, to help ensure there 
is appropriate oversight by senior executives. 
Data privacy laws and regulations continue to 
evolve globally. We continually monitor the 
regulatory environment to ensure we respond 
appropriately to any changes.
As part of our three lines of defence model, 
our Global Internal Audit function provides 
independent assurance as to whether our 
data privacy risk management approaches 
and processes are designed and operating 
effectively. In addition, we have established 
data privacy governance structures and 
continue to embed accountability across all 
businesses and functions.
We continue to implement industry practices 
for data privacy and security. Our privacy 
teams work closely with our data protection 
officers, industry bodies and research 
institutions to drive the design, 
implementation and monitoring of privacy 
solutions. We conduct regular reviews and 
privacy risk assessments and continue to 
develop solutions to strengthen our data 
privacy controls.
We have procedures to articulate the actions 
needed to deal with data privacy 
considerations. These include notifying 
regulators, customers or other data subjects, 
as required under applicable privacy laws and 
regulations, in the event of a reportable 
incident occurring.
Intellectual property rights practices
We have a Group intellectual property risk 
policy, supported by controls and guidance, to 
manage risk relating to intellectual property. 
This is to help ensure that commercially and 
strategically valuable intellectual property is 
identified and protected appropriately, 
including by applying to register trademarks 
and patents and enforcing our intellectual 
property rights against unauthorised use by 
third parties. Our intellectual property 
framework also helps us avoid infringement 
of third-party intellectual property rights, 
supporting our consistent and effective 
management of intellectual property risk in 
line with our risk appetite.
Responsible AI
Artificial intelligence (‘AI’) and other emerging technologies provide the opportunity to process 
and analyse data at a depth and breadth not previously possible. While these technologies 
offer significant potential benefits for our customers, they also pose potential ethical risks for 
the financial services industry and society as a whole. We have a set of principles to help 
ensure we consider and address the ethical issues that could arise. HSBC’s Principles for the 
Ethical Use of Data and Artificial Intelligence are available at www.hsbc.com/ai.
We continue to develop and enhance our approach to, and oversight of, AI, taking into 
consideration the fast-evolving regulatory landscape, market developments and best practice.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
83
Data Privacy Day
In February 2024, we held a global online 
event for our colleagues to mark 
International Data Privacy Day. The event 
was hosted by our Global Head of Data 
Legal, in collaboration with the 
International Association of Privacy 
Professionals. 
The discussion focused on key 
developments in the data privacy 
landscape for 2024 and beyond, including 
the impact of digital entropy and rapidly 
evolving AI-related advancements. This 
was followed by a Q&A with the 
audience to encourage further dialogue.
ESG review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Cybersecurity
The threat of a cyber incident remains a 
concern for our organisation, as it does across 
the financial sector and other industries. As 
cyber-threats continue to evolve, failure to 
protect our operations may result in disruption 
for our customers and our business, cause 
financial loss or loss of sensitive data, and can 
have a negative impact on our customers’ and 
our own reputation, among other risks. 
We continue to monitor ongoing geopolitical 
events and changes to the cyber-threat 
landscape and take proactive measures with 
the aim of reducing any impact on our 
customers. 
Prevent, detect and mitigate
We invest in business and technical controls to 
help prevent, detect and mitigate cyber 
threats. Our cybersecurity controls follow a 
’defence in depth’ approach, leveraging 
multiple security layers, and recognising the 
complexity of our environment. Our ability to 
detect and respond to attacks through roundthe-clock security operations centre 
capabilities is intended to help reduce the 
impact of attacks.
Our cyber intelligence and threat analysis team 
proactively collects and analyses internal and 
external cyber information to continuously 
evaluate threat levels for the most prevalent 
attack types and their potential outcomes. We 
actively participate in the broader cyber 
intelligence community, including by sharing 
technical expertise in investigations, alongside 
others in the financial services industry and 
government agencies around the world. 
In 2024, we continued our programme of 
continual improvement to further strengthen 
our cyber defences and enhance our 
cybersecurity capabilities to help reduce the 
likelihood and impact of unauthorised access, 
security vulnerabilities being exploited, data 
leakage, third-party security exposure and 
advanced malware. One key area of focus is 
the increasing use of AI, which could be used 
to facilitate sophisticated cyber-attacks. We 
are enhancing governance processes to 
manage potential cybersecurity risks, along 
with accelerating the potential this 
technology brings.
We work with third parties, including suppliers, 
financial infrastructure bodies and other nontraditional third parties, in an effort to help 
reduce the threat of cyber-attacks impacting 
our business services.
We have a third-party security risk 
management process in place to assess, 
identify and manage the risks associated with 
cybersecurity threats with supplier and other 
third-party relationships. The process includes 
risk-based cybersecurity due diligence reviews 
that assess third parties’ cybersecurity 
programmes against our standards and 
requirements. 
Policy and governance
We have a robust suite of cybersecurity 
policies, procedures, and key controls to help 
with the effective oversight and management 
of the organisation. This includes but is not 
limited to defined information security 
responsibilities for employees, contractors 
and third parties, as well as standard 
procedures for cyber incident identification, 
investigation, mitigation and reporting. We 
operate a three lines of defence model, 
aligned to the enterprise risk management 
framework, to help oversight and challenge of 
our cybersecurity capabilities and priorities. 
Within the first line of defence, risk owners 
within global business and functions are 
accountable for identifying and managing 
cyber risk. They work with cybersecurity 
control owners to apply risk treatment in line 
with our risk appetite. Our controls are 
designed to be executed in line with our 
policies and are reviewed and challenged by 
our risk stewards representing the second 
line of defence. They are independently 
assured by the Global Internal Audit function, 
the third line of defence.
The assessment and management of our 
cybersecurity risk is led and coordinated by a 
Global Chief Information Security Officer 
(‘CISO’). Our Global CISO has extensive 
experience in financial services, security and 
resilience as well as strategy, governance, 
risk management and regulatory compliance. 
The Global CISO is supported by regional and 
business-level CISOs. In the event of 
incidents, the Global CISO and relevant 
supporting CISOs are informed and are 
engaged in alignment with our cybersecurity 
incident response protocols.
Key performance indicators, control 
effectiveness and other matters related to 
cybersecurity, including significant cyber 
incidents, are presented on a regular basis to 
various management risk and control 
committees including to Board committees, 
the Group Risk Management Meeting and 
across global businesses, functions and 
regions. This is done to help ensure ongoing 
awareness and management of our 
cybersecurity position.
Our cybersecurity capabilities are periodically 
assessed against standards issued by the 
National Institute of Standards and Technology 
and by independent third parties, and we 
proactively collaborate with regulators to 
participate in regular testing activities. In 
addition, HSBC engages external independent 
third parties to support our penetration and 
threat-led penetration testing. 
Cyber training and awareness
We understand the important role our people 
play in protecting against cybersecurity 
threats. Our aim is to equip every colleague 
with the appropriate tools and behaviours they 
need to keep our organisation and customers’ 
data safe. We provide cybersecurity training 
and awareness to all our people, ranging from 
our top executives to IT developers to frontline branch staff around the world, and we 
deliver targeted training to staff that are 
identified as having elevated cyber risk 
exposure.
Boosting gender 
representation in 
cybersecurity
To help address barriers to opportunity, 
HSBC Cybersecurity has been working to 
increase the representation of women in 
emerging talent via a variety of initiatives 
across 2024. These include:
– Sponsoring the CyberFirst Girls 
Competition for the second 
consecutive year, aimed at inspiring 
girls interested in technology to pursue 
a career in cybersecurity.
– Providing cybersecurity workshadowing opportunities to 
undergraduates who are part of the 
UK-based Women in Technology 
programme.
– Cybersecurity colleagues have hosted 
a range of events with university 
students in Poland, Mexico, mainland 
China, India and the UK.
We host an annual Cyber Awareness Month 
for all colleagues, covering topics such as 
online safety at home, social media safety, 
safe hybrid working, and cyber incidents and 
response. Our dedicated cybersecurity 
training and awareness team also provides a 
wide range of education and guidance to both 
customers and our colleagues about how to 
spot and prevent online fraud.
ESG review | Governance 
84
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
85
Financial
review
The financial review gives detailed reporting of our 
financial performance at Group level as well as 
across the global businesses we reported on in 
2024 and legal entities.
86
Financial summary
98
Global businesses and legal entities
120
Reconciliation of alternative performance 
measures
Hong Kong, 1980s. Serving Our Customers.
Financial review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Financial summary
Contents
86
Key financial measures: basis of preparation
86
Use of alternative performance measures
88
Critical estimates and judgements
88
Impact of hyperinflationary accounting
89
Consolidated income statement 
90
Income statement commentary 
94
Consolidated balance sheet 
 
Key financial measures: basis of 
preparation
Return on average tangible equity 
excluding notable items
From 1 January 2024, we revised the adjustments made to our 
adjusted RoTE measure. Prior to this, we adjusted RoTE for the 
impact of strategic transactions and the impairment of our investment 
in Bank of Communications Co., Limited (‘BoCom‘), whereas from 
1 January 2024 we have excluded all notable items. This was 
intended to improve alignment with the treatment of notable items in 
our other income statement disclosures. The calculation for RoTE 
excluding notable items, adjusts the ‘profit attributable to the ordinary 
shareholders, excluding goodwill and other intangible assets 
impairment‘ for the post-tax impact of notable items. It also adjusts 
the ‘average tangible equity‘ for the post-tax impact of notable items 
in each period, which remain as adjusting items for all relevant 
periods within that calendar year. For a reconciliation from return on 
equity (‘RoE’) to RoTE excluding notable items, see page 122. 
We do not reconcile our forward RoTE guidance to the equivalent 
reported measure.
Banking net interest income
Banking net interest income (‘banking NII’) adjusts our NII, primarily 
for the impact of funding trading and fair value activities reported in 
interest expense. It represents the Group’s banking revenue that is 
directly impacted by changes in interest rates. 
We use this measure to determine the deployment of our surplus 
funding, and to help optimise our structural hedging and risk 
management actions. For more information on banking NII, see 
page 91.
Target basis operating expenses
Target basis operating expenses is computed by excluding the direct 
cost impact of our France retail banking operations and Canada 
banking business disposals from the 2023 baseline. It is measured on 
a constant currency basis and excludes notable items and the impact 
of retranslating the prior year results of hyperinflationary economies at 
constant currency, which we consider to be outside of our control. 
We consider target basis operating expenses to provide useful 
information to investors by quantifying and excluding the notable 
items that management considered when setting and assessing costrelated targets. For a reconciliation from reported operating expenses 
to target basis operating expenses, see page 124.
In 2024, we targeted operating expenses growth on a target basis of 
approximately 5% compared with 2023. This target reflected our 
business plan for 2024, which included an increase in staff 
compensation, higher spend and investment in technology for growth 
and efficiency, in part mitigated by cost savings from actions taken 
during 2023. 
We are targeting growth in target basis operating expenses of 
approximately 3% in 2025 compared with 2024. Our target basis 
operating expenses for 2025 excludes the direct cost impact of the 
business disposals in Canada and Argentina, notable items and the 
impact of retranslating the prior year results of hyperinflationary 
economies at constant currency.
Our cost target includes the impact of simplification-related saves 
associated with our announced reorganisation, see page 98, which 
aims to generate approximately $0.3bn of cost reductions in 2025. To 
deliver these reductions, we plan to incur severance and other upfront costs of $1.8bn over 2025 and 2026, which will be classified as 
notable items.
We do not reconcile our forward target basis operating expenses 
guidance to the reported operating expenses.
Dividend payout ratio target basis
We established a dividend payout ratio target basis of 50% for 2023 
and 2024, and we continue to target a payout ratio target basis of 
50% for 2025. For the purposes of computing our dividend payout 
ratio target basis, we exclude from earnings per share material 
notable items and related impacts. Material notable items are 
components of our income statement that management would 
consider as outside the normal course of business and generally nonrecurring in nature, which are excluded from our dividend payout ratio 
calculation and our earnings per share measure, along with related 
impacts. 
Material notable items are a subset of notable items for which 
categorisation is dependent on the nature of each item in conjunction 
with the financial impact on the Group’s income statement. They 
comprise the impacts of the sales of our banking business in Canada 
and our retail banking operations in France, the gain following the 
acquisition of SVB UK, the impacts of the sale of our business in 
Argentina and the impairment of BoCom. We also exclude HSBC 
Bank Canada‘s financial results from the 30 June 2022 net asset 
reference date until completion, as the gain on sale was recognised 
through a combination of the consolidation of HSBC Bank Canada‘s 
results in the Group‘s results since this date, and the remaining gain 
on sale recognised at completion, inclusive of the recycling of related 
reserves and fair value gains on related hedges. Following the 
completion of the sale of our banking business in Canada, the Board 
approved a special dividend of $0.21 per share, which was paid in 
June 2024, alongside the first interim dividend.
For a reconciliation of basic earnings per share to basic earnings per 
share excluding material notable items and related impacts, see 
page 125. We do not reconcile our forward dividend payout ratio 
target basis guidance to the reported dividend payout ratio.
Use of alternative performance 
measures
Our reported results are prepared in accordance with International 
Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board (‘IFRS Accounting Standards’), as detailed in the 
financial statements starting on page 341.
To measure our performance, we supplement our IFRS Accounting 
Standards figures with non-IFRS Accounting Standards measures, 
which constitute alternative performance measures under European 
Securities and Markets Authority guidance and non-GAAP financial 
measures defined in and presented in accordance with US Securities 
and Exchange Commission rules and regulations. These measures 
include those derived from our reported results that eliminate factors 
distorting year-on-year comparisons. The ‘constant currency 
performance’ measure used throughout this report is described below. 
Definitions and calculations of other alternative performance measures 
Financial summary
86
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

are included in our ‘Reconciliation of alternative performance measures’ 
on page 120. Also, the insurance-specific non-GAAP measure ‘Insurance 
equity plus CSM net of tax‘, is provided on page 106, along with its 
definition and reconciliation to the GAAP measure. All alternative 
performance measures are reconciled to the closest reported 
performance measure.
The global business segmental results are presented on a constant 
currency basis in accordance with IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’ as 
detailed in Note 10 ‘Segmental analysis’ on page 383.
Constant currency performance
Constant currency performance is computed by adjusting reported 
results for the effects of foreign currency translation differences, which 
distort year-on-year comparisons.
We consider constant currency performance to provide useful 
information for investors by aligning internal and external reporting, and 
reflecting how management assesses year-on-year performance.
Notable items and material notable 
items
We separately disclose ‘notable items’, which are components of our 
income statement that management would consider as outside the 
normal course of business and generally non-recurring in nature. 
Certain notable items are classified as ‘material notable items’, which 
are a subset of notable items. Categorisation as a material notable item 
is dependent on the nature of each item in conjunction with the financial 
impact on the Group’s income statement. We exclude material notable 
items when computing our dividend payout ratio target basis. Material 
notable items currently comprise the sale of our retail operations in 
France and our banking business in Canada, the sale of our business in 
Argentina, the acquisition of SVB UK and the impairment of our 
investment in BoCom.
 The tables on pages 99 to 101 and pages 113 to 118 detail the effects of 
notable items on each of our global business segments, legal entities and 
selected countries/territories in 2024, 2023 and 2022.
Impact of strategic transactions
To aid the understanding of our results, we separately disclose the 
impact of strategic transactions classified as material notable items on 
the results of the Group and our global businesses. At 31 December 
2024, strategic transactions classified as material notable items in 
current and comparative periods comprise the disposal of our retail 
banking operations in France, the disposal of our banking business in 
Canada, the sale of our business in Argentina and the acquisition of SVB 
UK. 
The impacts of strategic transactions include the gains or losses on 
classification to held for sale or on acquisition and all other related 
notable items. They also include the distorting impact between the 
periods of the operating income statement results related to acquisitions 
and disposals that affect period-on-period comparisons. This is 
computed by including the operating income statement results of each 
business in any period for which there are no results in the comparative 
period. We consider the monthly impacts of distorting income 
statement results when calculating the impact of strategic transactions.
 See page 102 for supplementary analysis of the impact of strategic 
transactions. 
Constant currency revenue and profit 
before tax excluding notable items
We separately report ‘constant currency revenue excluding notable 
items’ and ‘constant currency profit before tax excluding notable items’, 
which exclude the impact of notable items and the impact of foreign 
exchange translation. We consider this measure to provide useful 
information to investors as it removes items which distort period-onperiod comparisons. 
 For a reconciliation of ‘constant currency revenue excluding notable items’ 
and ‘constant currency profit before tax excluding notable items’ to reported 
revenue and reported profit respectively, see page 122.
Constant currency revenue and profit 
before tax excluding notable items 
and the impact of strategic 
transactions
To aid the understanding of our results, we separately disclose ‘constant 
currency revenue excluding notable items and the impact of strategic 
transactions’ and ‘constant currency profit before tax excluding notable 
items and the impact of strategic transactions’. This measure excludes 
the impact of strategic transactions classified as material notable items 
from constant currency revenue and profit before tax excluding notable 
items. At 31 December 2024, strategic transactions classified as 
material notable items comprise the disposal of our retail banking 
operations in France, our banking business in Canada, the sale of our 
business in Argentina and the acquisition of SVB UK. 
The impacts quoted include the gains or losses on classification to held 
for sale or acquisition and all other related notable items. They also 
include the distorting impact between the periods of the operating 
income statement results related to acquisitions and disposals that 
affect period-on-period comparisons. It is computed by including the 
operating income statement results of each business in any period for 
which there are no results in the comparative period. We consider the 
monthly impacts of distorting income statement results when 
calculating the impact of strategic transactions.
 For a reconciliation of ‘constant currency revenue excluding notable items 
and the impact of strategic transactions’ and ‘constant currency profit 
before tax excluding notable items and the impact of strategic transactions’ 
to reported revenue and reported profit respectively, see page 122.
Foreign currency translation 
differences
Foreign currency translation differences reflect the movements of the 
US dollar against most major currencies during 2024. 
We exclude them to derive constant currency data, allowing us to assess 
balance sheet and income statement performance on a like-for-like basis 
and to better understand the underlying trends in the business.
Foreign currency translation differences for 2024 are computed by 
retranslating into US dollars for non-US dollar branches, subsidiaries, 
joint ventures and associates:
–
the income statements for 2023 and 2022 at the average rates of 
exchange for 2024; and
–
the balance sheets at 31 December 2023 and 31 December 2022 at 
the prevailing rates of exchange on 31 December 2024.
No adjustment has been made to the exchange rates used to 
translate foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities into the 
functional currencies of any HSBC branches, subsidiaries, joint 
ventures or associates. The constant currency data of our operations 
in Argentina and Türkiye has not been adjusted further for the impacts 
of hyperinflation. 
When reference is made to foreign currency translation differences in 
tables or commentaries, comparative data reported in the functional 
currencies of HSBC’s operations have been translated at the appropriate 
exchange rates applied in the current period on the basis described above.
Insurance metrics no longer reported 
Insurance manufacturing value of new business and Insurance 
manufacturing proxy embedded value were previously presented as 
non-GAAP performance measures. The Group continues to review its 
use of non-GAAP performance measures following implementation of 
IFRS 17 and has now discontinued the reporting of these measures. 
Instead ‘New business CSM’ is now management’s key newbusiness performance measure, and ‘Equity plus CSM net of tax’ is 
considered a measure of entity value more closely aligned with 
IFRS 17.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
87
Financial review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Impact of hyperinflationary 
accounting
During 2024, we continued to treat Argentina and Türkiye as 
hyperinflationary economies for accounting purposes. The impact of 
applying IAS 29 ‘Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies’ 
and the hyperinflation provisions of IAS 21 ’The Effects of Changes in 
Foreign Exchange Rates’ for our operations in both Argentina and 
Türkiye was a decrease in the Group’s profit before tax of $917m 
(2023: $1,297m), comprising a decrease in revenue, including loss on 
net monetary position, of $840m (2023: $1,586m) and an increase in 
ECL and operating expenses of $77m (2023: decrease of $289m). 
These numbers reflect an increase in the consumer price index (‘CPI’) 
of 3,915.03 (2023: 2,429.13 increase) for Argentina and 825.55 (2023: 
730.89 increase) for Türkiye. We have now completed the sale of our 
business in Argentina, so there will be no impact in 2025 of hyperinflation 
in this market, although comparative data will include the impact of 
hyperinflation. 
Critical estimates and judgements
The results of HSBC reflect the choice of accounting policies, 
assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation of HSBC’s 
consolidated financial statements. The material accounting policies, 
including the policies which include critical estimates and judgements, 
are described in Note 1.2 on the financial statements. The accounting 
policies listed below are highlighted as they involve a high degree of 
uncertainty and have a material impact on the financial statements:
–
Impairment of amortised cost financial assets and financial assets 
measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (‘FVOCI’): 
The most significant judgements relate to defining what is considered 
to be a significant increase in credit risk, determining the lifetime and 
point of initial recognition of revolving facilities, selecting and calibrating 
the probability of default (‘PD’), the loss given default (‘LGD’) and the 
exposure at default (‘EAD’) models, as well as selecting model inputs 
and economic forecasts, making assumptions and estimates to 
incorporate relevant information about late-breaking and past events, 
current conditions and forecasts of economic conditions, and selecting 
applicable recovery strategies for certain wholesale credit-impaired 
loans. A high degree of uncertainty is involved in making estimations 
using assumptions that are highly subjective and very sensitive to the 
risk factors. See Note 1.2(i) on page 359.
–
Deferred tax assets: The most significant judgements relate to those 
made in respect of recoverability, which are based on expected 
future profitability. See Note 1.2(l) on page 364.
–
Valuation of financial instruments: In determining the fair value of 
financial instruments a variety of valuation techniques are used, 
some of which feature significant unobservable inputs and are 
subject to substantial uncertainty. See Note 1.2(c) on page 357.
–
Impairment of investment in subsidiaries: Impairment testing, 
including testing for reversal of impairment, involves significant 
judgement in determining the value in use, and in particular 
estimating the present values of cash flows expected to arise from 
continuing to hold the investment, based on a number of 
management assumptions. See Note 1.2(a) on page 354.
–
Impairment of interests in associates: Impairment testing, 
including testing for reversal of impairment, involves significant 
judgement in determining the value in use, and in particular 
estimating the present values of cash flows expected to arise from 
continuing to hold the investment, based on a number of 
management assumptions. The most significant judgements relate 
to the impairment testing of our investment in Bank of 
Communications Co., Limited (‘BoCom’). See Note 1.2(a) on 
page 354.
–
Impairment of goodwill and non-financial assets: A high degree of 
uncertainty is involved in estimating the future cash flows of the 
cash-generating units (‘CGUs’) and the rates used to discount these 
cash flows. See Note 1.2(a) on page 354 and Note 1.2(n) on 
page 365.
–
Provisions: Significant judgement may be required due to the high 
degree of uncertainty associated with determining whether a 
present obligation exists, and estimating the probability and amount 
of any outflows that may arise. See Note 1.2(m) on page 364.
–
Post-employment benefit plans: The calculation of the defined benefit 
pension obligation involves the determination of key assumptions 
including discount rate, inflation rate, pension payments and deferred 
pensions, pay and mortality. See Note 1.2(k) on page 363.
Given the inherent uncertainties and the high level of subjectivity 
involved in the recognition or measurement of the items above, it is 
possible that the outcomes in the next financial year could differ from 
the expectations on which management’s estimates are based, 
resulting in the recognition and measurement of materially different 
amounts from those estimated by management in these financial 
statements.
Financial summary
88
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Consolidated income statement
Summary consolidated income statement
2024
2023
20221
2021
2020
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Net interest income 
 
32,733 
35,796 
30,377 
26,489 
27,578 
Net fee income 
 
12,301 
11,845 
11,770 
13,097 
11,874 
Net income from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value basis2
 
21,116 
16,661 
10,278 
7,744 
9,582 
Net income/(expense) from assets and liabilities of insurance businesses, including related 
derivatives, measured at fair value through profit or loss
 
5,901 
7,887 
(13,831) 
4,053 
2,081 
Net insurance premium income 
 
— 
— 
— 
10,870 
10,093 
Insurance finance (expense)/income
 
(5,978) 
(7,809) 
13,799 
— 
— 
Insurance service result
 
1,310 
1,078 
809 
— 
— 
Gain on acquisition3
 
— 
1,591 
— 
— 
— 
Gains/(losses) recognised on sale of business operations4
 
(1,752) 
(61) 
(2,678) 
— 
— 
Other operating income/(expense)5
 
223 
(930) 
96 
1,687 
1,866 
Total operating income 
 
65,854 
66,058 
50,620 
63,940 
63,074 
Net insurance claims and benefits paid and movement in liabilities to policyholders 
 
— 
— 
— 
(14,388) 
(12,645) 
Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other 
credit impairment charges6
 
65,854 
66,058 
50,620 
49,552 
50,429 
Change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges
 
(3,414) 
(3,447) 
(3,584) 
928 
(8,817) 
Net operating income 
 
62,440 
62,611 
47,036 
50,480 
41,612 
Total operating expenses excluding impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets
 
(32,966) 
(32,355) 
(32,554) 
(33,887) 
(33,044) 
(Impairment)/reversal of impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets
 
(77) 
285 
(147) 
(733) 
(1,388) 
Operating profit
 
29,397 
30,541 
14,335 
15,860 
7,180 
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures
 
2,912 
2,807 
2,723 
3,046 
1,597 
Impairment of interest in associate
 
— 
(3,000) 
— 
— 
— 
Profit before tax 
 
32,309 
30,348 
17,058 
18,906 
8,777 
Tax expense 
 
(7,310) 
(5,789) 
(809) 
(4,213) 
(2,678) 
Profit for the year 
 
24,999 
24,559 
16,249 
14,693 
6,099 
Attributable to:
– ordinary shareholders of the parent company
 
22,917 
22,432 
14,346 
12,607 
3,898 
– preference shareholders of the parent company
 
— 
— 
— 
7 
90 
– other equity holders
 
1,062 
1,101 
1,213 
1,303 
1,241 
– non-controlling interests
 
1,020 
1,026 
690 
776 
870 
Profit for the year
 
24,999 
24,559 
16,249 
14,693 
6,099 
 
Five-year financial information
2024
2023
20221
2021
2020
$
$
$
$
$
Basic earnings per share
 
1.25 
1.15 
0.72 
0.62 
0.19 
Diluted earnings per share
 
1.24 
1.14 
0.72 
0.62 
0.19 
Dividends per ordinary share (paid in the period)7
 
0.82 
0.53 
0.27 
0.22 
— 
%
%
%
%
%
Dividend payout ratio8
 
50 
 
50 
 
44 
 
40 
 
79 
Post-tax return on average total assets
 
0.8 
0.8 
0.5 
0.5 
0.2 
Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity
 
13.6 
 
13.6 
 
9.0 
 
7.1 
 
2.3 
Return on average tangible equity
 
14.6 
 
14.6 
 
10.0 
 
8.3 
 
3.1 
Effective tax rate
 
22.6 
19.1 
4.7 
22.3 
30.5 
1 From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the financial year ended 
31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly. Comparative data for the years ended 31 December 2021 and 2020 are prepared on an IFRS 4 basis.
2 Includes a $255m gain (2023: $315m loss) on the foreign exchange hedging of the proceeds from the sale of our banking business in Canada and a $114m markto-market gain (2023:nil) on interest rate hedging of the portfolio of retained loans post sale of our retail banking business in France.
3 Gain recognised in respect of the acquisition of SVB UK.
4 This line item has been updated to include amounts from Other operating income relating to all sales of business operations; in the 2023 Annual Report and Accounts, 
this line item only reflected the disposal of our France retail banking business. The amount in 2024 includes a $1.0bn loss on disposal and a $5.2bn loss on the recycling 
in foreign currency translation reserve losses and other reserves arising on sale of our business in Argentina. This was partly offset by a gain of $4.6bn, inclusive of the 
recycling of $0.6bn in foreign currency translation reserve losses and $0.4bn of other reserves losses but excluding the $255m gain on the foreign exchange hedging 
(see footnote 2 above) on the sale of our banking business in Canada. The amount in 2023 primarily reflected losses due to restrictions impacting the recoverability of 
assets in Russia, partly offset by a gain on sale of our retail banking operations in France. The amount in 2022 included losses from classifying businesses as held for 
sale as part of a broader restructuring of our European business.
5 Other operating (expense)/income includes a loss on net monetary positions of $1,187m (2023: $1,667m; 2022: $678m) as a result of applying IAS 29 ‘Financial 
Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies’. 
6 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges also referred to as revenue. 
7 Includes dividend paid during the period, which consisted of a fourth interim dividend of $0.31 per ordinary share in respect of the financial year ended 
31 December 2023 paid in April 2024 and the first, second and third interim dividends of $0.30 per ordinary share in respect of the financial year ending 
31 December 2024. In addition, a special dividend of $0.21 per ordinary share from the Canada sale proceeds was paid in June 2024 along with the first interim 
dividend.
8 In 2024 and 2023, our dividend payout ratio was adjusted for material notable items and related impacts. In 2022, our dividend payout ratio was adjusted for the 
loss on classification to held for sale of our retail banking business in France, items relating to the sale of our banking business in Canada, and the recognition of 
certain deferred tax assets. No items were adjusted for in 2021 and 2020. 
Unless stated otherwise, all tables are presented on a reported basis.
 For a summary of our financial performance in 2024, see page 27.
 For further financial performance data for each global business and legal entity, see pages 98 to 102 and 110 to 120 respectively. The global business segmental 
results are presented on a constant currency basis in accordance with IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’ as set out in Note 10: Segmental analysis on page 383.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
89
Financial review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Income statement commentary
The following commentary compares Group financial performance for the year ended 2024 with 2023, unless otherwise stated.
Net interest income
Year ended
Quarter ended
31 Dec 2024
31 Dec 2023
31 Dec 2022
31 Dec 2024
30 Sep 2024
31 Dec 2023
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Interest income
 
108,631 
100,868 
52,826 
26,004 
27,255 
26,714 
Interest expense 
 
(75,898) 
(65,072) 
(22,449) 
(17,819) 
(19,618) 
(18,430) 
Net interest income
 
32,733 
35,796 
30,377 
8,185 
7,637 
8,284 
Average interest-earning assets 
 
2,099,285 
2,161,746 
2,143,758 
2,113,276 
2,088,100 
2,164,324 
%
%
%
%
%
%
Gross interest yield1
 
5.17 
 
4.67 
 
2.46 
 
4.90 
 
5.19 
 
4.90 
Less: gross interest payable1
 
(3.95) 
 
(3.47) 
 
(1.24) 
 
(3.60) 
 
(4.07) 
 
(3.83) 
Net interest spread2
 
1.22 
 
1.20 
 
1.22 
 
1.30 
 
1.12 
 
1.07 
Net interest margin3
 
1.56 
 
1.66 
 
1.42 
 
1.54 
 
1.46 
 
1.52 
1 Gross interest yield is the average annualised interest rate earned on average interest-earning assets (‘AIEA’). Gross interest payable is the average annualised 
interest cost as a percentage of average interest-bearing liabilities.
2 Net interest spread is the difference between the average annualised interest rate earned on AIEA, net of amortised premiums and loan fees, and the average 
annualised interest rate payable on average interest-bearing funds.
3 Net interest margin is net interest income expressed as an annualised percentage of AIEA. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of interest income by type of asset
2024
2023
2022
Average
balance
Interest
income
Yield
Average
balance
Interest
income
Yield
Average
balance
Interest
income
Yield
$m
$m
%
$m
$m
%
$m
$m
%
Short-term funds and loans and advances to banks
 
349,517 
14,727 
 
4.21 
403,674 14,770 
 
3.66 
445,659 
5,577 
 
1.25 
Loans and advances to customers
 
949,825 
49,879 
 
5.25 
957,717 47,673 
 
4.98 
1,022,320 
32,543 
 
3.18 
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading1
 
238,694 
17,721 
 
7.42 
240,263 14,391 
 
5.99 
231,058 
4,886 
 
2.11 
Financial investments 
 
470,182 
20,587 
 
4.38 
407,363 16,858 
 
4.14 
372,702 
7,704 
 
2.07 
Other interest-earning assets 
 
91,067 
5,717 
 
6.28 
152,729 
7,176 
 
4.70 
72,019 
2,116 
 
2.94 
Total interest-earning assets 
 2,099,285 108,631 
 
5.17 
2,161,746 100,868 
 
4.67 
2,143,758 
52,826 
 
2.46 
Summary of interest expense by type of liability
2024
2023
2022
Average
balance
Interest
expense
Cost
Average
balance
Interest
expense
Cost
Average
balance
Interest
expense
Cost
$m
$m
%
$m
$m
%
$m
$m
%
Deposits by banks2
 
66,405 
2,930 
 
4.41 
60,392 
2,401 
 
3.98 
75,739 
770 
 
1.02 
Customer accounts3
 1,385,840 
40,173 
 
2.90 
1,334,803 34,162 
 
2.56 
1,342,342 
10,903 
 
0.81 
Repurchase agreements – non-trading1
 
187,337 
15,617 
 
8.34 
146,605 10,858 
 
7.41 
118,308 
3,085 
 
2.61 
Debt securities in issue – non-trading
 
196,440 
12,806 
 
6.52 
184,867 11,223 
 
6.07 
179,775 
5,607 
 
3.12 
Other interest-bearing liabilities
 
84,773 
4,372 
 
5.16 
146,216 
6,428 
 
4.40 
87,965 
2,084 
 
2.37 
Total interest-bearing liabilities
 1,920,795 
75,898 
 
3.95 
1,872,883 65,072 
 
3.47 
1,804,129 
22,449 
 
1.24 
1 The average balances for repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements include net amounts where the criteria for offsetting are met, resulting in a lower net 
balance reported for repurchase agreements and thus higher cost.
2 Including interest-bearing bank deposits only. 
3 Including interest-bearing customer accounts only. 
Net interest income (‘NII’) for 2024 was $32.7bn, a decrease of 
$3.1bn or 9% compared with 2023. The decrease included a $2.7bn 
reduction mainly due to the redeployment of our commercial surplus 
to net trading and fair value assets, for which the associated revenue 
is reported in ‘net income on financial instruments held for trading or 
managed on a fair value basis‘. The fall also reflected a $1.0bn loss 
due to the disposal of our business in Canada and a $0.2bn loss in 
2024 related to the early redemption of legacy securities. NII in HSBC 
UK grew by $0.6bn, including the benefit of our structural hedge and 
balance sheet growth, partly offset by mortgage pricing pressures. 
There was also higher NII in Markets Treasury due to reinvestments 
in our portfolio at higher yields. Excluding the unfavourable impact of 
foreign currency translation differences, net interest income 
decreased by $1.4bn or 4%. NII for the fourth quarter of 2024 was 
$8.2bn, up 7% compared with the previous quarter, and down 1% 
compared with the fourth quarter of 2023. The increase compared 
with 3Q24 was predominantly driven by the non-recurrence of the 
adverse impact in 3Q24 from the early redemption of legacy 
securities. The decline in NII compared with 4Q23 was predominantly 
driven by the impact of lower AIEA.
Net interest margin (‘NIM’) for 2024 of 1.56% was 10bps lower 
compared with 2023, reflecting redeployment of our commercial 
surplus to net trading and fair value assets, and higher interest 
expense due to higher market rates and an adverse impact of $0.2bn 
from the early redemption of legacy securities. The decrease in NIM 
in 2024 included the unfavourable impact of foreign currency 
translation differences. Excluding this, NIM decreased by 6bps. NIM 
for the fourth quarter of 2024 was 1.54%, up 8bps compared with the 
previous quarter, and up 2bps compared with the fourth quarter of 
2023. The increase against the previous quarter was primarily due to 
the non-recurrence of the adverse impact from the early redemption 
of legacy securities. The year-on-year increase was predominantly 
driven by HSBC UK.
Interest income for 2024 of $108.6bn increased by $7.8bn compared 
with 2023, primarily due to an increase in market interest rates.
Interest income of $26bn in the fourth quarter of 2024 was down 
$1.3bn compared with the previous quarter, and down $0.7bn 
compared with the fourth quarter of 2023. Both the declines were 
primarily due to lower market interest rates.
Financial summary
90
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The change in interest income in 2024 compared with 2023 included 
an adverse impact of foreign currency translation differences of 
$2.7bn. After excluding foreign currency translation differences, 
interest income increased by $10.5bn.
Interest expense for 2024 of $75.9bn increased by $10.8bn 
compared with 2023, primarily due to an increase in market interest 
rates, growth in customer accounts with higher proportion for term 
deposits and the impact of the early redemption of legacy securities.
The rise in interest expense included the favourable effects of foreign 
currency translation differences of $1.1bn. Excluding this, interest 
expense increased by $11.9bn. 
Interest expense of $17.8bn in the fourth quarter of 2024 was $1.8bn 
and $0.6bn lower compared with the third quarter of 2024 and the 
fourth quarter of 2023 respectively. The decrease against the previous 
quarter was due to the non-recurrence of an adverse impact from the 
early redemption of legacy securities. The year-on-year decline was 
primarily due to lower market interest rates.
Banking net interest income
Year ended
Quarter ended
31 Dec 2024 31 Dec 2023 31 Dec 2024 30 Sep 2024 31 Dec 2023
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Net interest income
 
32,733 
35,796 
8,185 
7,637 
8,284 
Banking book funding costs used to generate ‘net income from financial instruments 
held for trading or managed on a fair value basis’
 
11,434 
8,744 
2,874 
3,051 
2,542 
Third-party net interest income from insurance
 
(429) 
(445) 
(109) 
(104) 
(109) 
Banking net interest income
 
43,738 
44,095 
10,950 
10,584 
10,717 
– of which:
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited
 
21,691 
22,024 
5,464 
5,475 
5,566 
HSBC UK Bank plc
 
10,368 
9,684 
2,663 
2,643 
2,455 
HSBC Bank plc
 
4,630 
4,596 
1,182 
1,152 
1,205 
Banking net interest income is an alternative performance measure, 
and is defined as Group reported net interest income after deducting:
–
the internal cost to fund trading and fair value net assets for which 
associated revenue is reported in ‘Net income from financial 
instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value basis’, also 
referred to as ‘trading and fair value income’. These funding costs 
reflect proxy overnight or term interest rates as applied by internal 
funds transfer pricing;
–
the funding costs of foreign exchange swaps in Markets Treasury, 
where an offsetting income or loss is recorded in trading and fair 
value income. These instruments are used to manage foreign 
currency deployment and funding in our entities; and
–
third-party net interest income in our insurance business. 
In our segmental disclosures, the funding costs of trading and fair 
value net assets are predominantly recorded in GBM in ‘net income 
from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value 
basis’. On consolidation, this funding is eliminated in Corporate 
Centre, resulting in an increase in the funding costs reported in NII 
with an equivalent offsetting increase in ‘net income from financial 
instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value basis’ in this 
segment. In the consolidated Group results, the cost to fund these 
trading and fair value net assets is reported in NII.
Banking NII was $43.7bn in 2024. The funding costs associated with 
generating trading and fair value income were $11.4bn, an increase of 
$2.7bn compared with 2023, primarily reflecting redeployment of our 
commercial surplus to net trading and fair value assets. Banking NII 
also deducts third-party NII related to our insurance business, which 
was $0.4bn, stable compared with 2023. The movement in banking 
NII also included a reduction from the disposal of our business in 
Canada of $1.0bn, a $0.2bn loss in 2024 related to the early 
redemption of legacy securities and from higher interest expense on 
deposits in part due to balance growth. Banking NII in HSBC UK grew 
by $0.7bn, including the benefit of our structural hedge and balance 
sheet growth, partly offset by mortgage pricing pressures. There was 
higher NII in Markets Treasury due to reinvestments in our portfolio at 
higher yields.
The internally allocated funding to generate trading and fair value 
income was approximately $200bn at 31 December 2024, a rise of 
approximately $37bn since 31 December 2023, although it decreased 
by approximately $9bn during 4Q24. This relates to trading, fair value 
and associated net asset balances predominantly in GBM. The 
increase reflected management decisions on the deployment of our 
commercial surplus.
Net fee income of $12.3bn was $0.5bn or 4% higher than in 2023, 
and included an adverse impact from foreign currency translation 
differences of $0.2bn, as well as a reduction of $0.4bn due to the 
impact of the disposal of our banking business in Canada. On a 
constant currency basis, net fee income was $0.6bn higher, driven by 
an increase in WPB, while a smaller rise in GBM was offset by a 
reduction in CMB.
In WPB, net fee income increased by $0.6bn. The rise was mainly 
due to higher income from unit trusts, broking income and funds 
under management, including in Hong Kong. This reflected stronger 
equity markets and improved customer sentiment. Cards income 
grew, including in our main entity in Mexico, as customer spending 
increased, as well as in our legal entities in Asia, which mitigated the 
reduction from the disposal of our banking business in Canada. The 
growth in cards activity resulted in a corresponding rise in fee 
expense. 
In GBM, net fee income was stable, including an adverse impact of 
foreign currency translation of $42m. There was higher broking and 
underwriting income in our main entity in Europe, although this was 
partly offset by a rise in associated fee expense. In addition, there 
was higher fee expense relating to broking and custody, as well as 
intercompany fee expenses incurred on behalf of other global 
businesses.
In CMB, net fee income decreased by $0.1bn driven by lower fees 
from credit facilities, notably due to the disposal of our banking 
operations in Canada. This reduction was partly offset by an increase 
in fee income from GBM products sold to CMB customers. 
Net income from financial instruments held for trading or 
managed on a fair value basis of $21.1bn was $4.5bn higher 
compared with 2023. This included favourable fair value movements 
of $0.6bn on the foreign exchange hedging of the proceeds of the 
sale of our banking business in Canada until completion of the sale. 
The increase also reflected higher client activity and elevated volatility 
in Markets and Securities Services in GBM. A component of funding 
costs incurred to generate this income are reported in NII, and these 
increased by $2.7bn, compared with 2023.
In WPB, income rose by $0.2bn due to a favourable movement 
related to derivatives in our insurance business and from higher 
customer trading activity in Wealth, including in our main legal entity 
in Asia.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
91
Financial review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Net income from assets and liabilities of insurance businesses, 
including related derivatives, measured at fair value through 
profit or loss of $5.9bn fell by $2.0bn compared with 2023. This 
decrease reflected adverse fair value movements on debt securities, 
due to movements in interest rates, including in our portfolios in Hong 
Kong and France, partly offset by improved equity returns. 
This unfavourable movement resulted in a corresponding reduction in 
insurance finance expense, which has an offsetting impact for the 
related liabilities to policyholders.
Insurance finance expense of $6.0bn was $1.8bn lower than in 
2023, reflecting the impact of investment returns on underlying 
assets on the value of liabilities to policyholders, which moves 
inversely with ‘net income from assets and liabilities of insurance 
businesses, including related derivatives, measured at fair value 
through profit or loss’.
Insurance service result of $1.3bn increased by $0.2bn compared 
with 2023, primarily due to an increase in the release of the 
contractual service margin (‘CSM’).
Gain on acquisition fell by $1.6bn, reflecting the non-recurrence of a 
gain recognised in respect of the acquisition of SVB UK in 1Q23.
Losses recognised on sale of business operations were $1.8bn in 
2024. This compared with a gain of $61m in 2023. In 2024, there 
were losses from completion of the disposal of our business in 
Argentina, comprising the recycling of $5.2bn of foreign currency 
translation reserve losses and other reserves to the income 
statement and a $1.0bn loss on disposal. This was partly offset by a 
gain of $4.6bn on the sale of our banking business in Canada, 
inclusive of recycling of foreign currency translation reserve and other 
reserve losses to the income statement.
Other operating income of $0.2bn was $1.3bn higher than in 2023. 
The increase primarily related to the non-recurrence of losses in 2023 
of $1.0bn relating to Treasury repositioning and risk management.
The increase also included the non-recurrence of a loss of $0.3bn in 
2023 relating to corrections to historical valuation estimates in our life 
insurance business, and losses related to the disposal of our New 
Zealand retail mortgage loan portfolio and the merger of HSBC Bank 
Oman in 2023 with Sohar International.
Change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment 
charges (‘ECL’) were a charge of $3.4bn, stable compared with 2023. 
ECL charges in CMB were $1.8bn in 2024 and in GBM charges were 
$0.2bn. This included charges of $0.4bn in respect of commercial real 
estate in mainland China and of $0.1bn in the Hong Kong real estate 
sector. This compared with charges of $1.0bn and $0.1bn 
respectively in these sectors in 2023. In addition, ECL in CMB in 2024 
included a charge related to a single exposure in the UK, while 
charges in HSBC UK reduced compared with 2023. In GBM, charges 
in 2024 also benefited from a release of stage 3 allowances in HSBC 
Bank plc related to a single exposure.
In WPB, ECL charges were $1.3bn. These primarily related to our 
legal entity in Mexico, reflecting growth in our unsecured lending 
portfolio and unemployment trends, and also in Hong Kong.
For further details on the calculation of ECL, including the 
measurement uncertainties and significant judgements applied to 
such calculations, the impact of the economic scenarios and 
management judgemental adjustments, see pages 147 to 160.
Operating expenses
Year ended
2024
2023
2022
$m
$m
$m
Gross employee compensation and benefits
 
20,153 
19,623
19,288
Capitalised wages and salaries 
 
(1,688) 
(1,403) 
(1,285) 
Property and equipment
 
4,786 
4,285
4,949
Amortisation and impairment of intangibles
 
2,235 
1,827
1,701
UK bank levy
 
249 
339
13
Legal proceedings and regulatory matters
 
145 
188
246
Other operating expenses1
 
7,163 
7,211
7,789
Reported operating expenses 
 
33,043 
32,070
32,701
Currency translation
 
(576) 
(472) 
Constant currency operating expenses
 
33,043 
31,494 
32,229 
1 Other operating expenses includes professional fees, contractor costs, transaction taxes, marketing and travel.
Staff numbers (full-time equivalents)1
2024
2023
2022
Global businesses
Wealth and Personal Banking
 
119,791 
128,399 
128,764 
Commercial Banking
 
45,190 
45,884 
43,640 
Global Banking and Markets
 
45,983 
46,241 
46,435 
Corporate Centre
 
340 
337 
360 
At 31 Dec
 
211,304 
220,861 
219,199 
1 Represents the number of full-time equivalent people with contracts of service with the Group who are being paid at the reporting date.
Financial summary
92
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Operating expenses of $33.0bn were $1.0bn or 3% higher than in 
2023, including a favourable impact of $0.6bn from foreign currency 
translation differences. The increase reflected higher spend and 
investment in technology and inflationary impacts, while performancerelated pay remained stable. Operating expenses were adversely 
impacted by the non-recurrence of a $0.2bn reversal of historical 
asset impairments in 2023.
These increases were partly offset by the favourable impacts from 
the completion of business disposals in Canada and France, and a 
lower UK bank levy of $0.1bn, as 2023 included adjustments relating 
to prior years. Operating expenses in 2024 benefited from the nonrecurrence of a $0.2bn charge in 2023 incurred in the US relating to 
the FDIC special assessment.
Target basis operating expense growth was 5% compared with 2023, 
in line with our cost growth target. This primarily reflected higher 
investment spend, including in technology and from inflationary 
pressures, while our performance-related pay accrual was broadly in 
line with 2023. Our target basis operating expenses are measured on 
a constant currency basis, excluding notable items, the impact of 
retranslating the prior year results of hyperinflationary economies at 
constant currency, and the direct costs from the sales of our French 
retail banking operations and our banking business in Canada.
 For a reconciliation of target basis operating expense to reported operating 
expenses see page 124.
The number of employees expressed in full-time equivalent staff 
(‘FTE’) at 31 December 2024 was 211,304, a decrease of 9,557 
compared with 31 December 2023, primarily reflecting the 
completion of the sales of our banking business in Canada, our retail 
banking operations in France and our business in Argentina. The 
number of contractors at 31 December 2024 was 4,226, a decrease 
of 450.
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures of $2.9bn was 
$3.1bn higher than in 2023, including an increase in the share of profit 
from SAB.
Impairment of interest in associate. In relation to our investment in 
BoCom, at 31 December 2024 we concluded that there was no 
indication of further significant impairment (or indication that an 
impairment may no longer exist or may have decreased significantly) 
since 31 December 2023.
At 31 December 2023, the Group performed an impairment test on 
the carrying value of our investment in BoCom which resulted in an 
impairment of $3.0bn.
 For further details of our impairment review process, see Note 18: Interests 
in associates and joint ventures on page 401.
Tax expense
2024
2023
$m
$m
Tax (charge)/credit
Reported
 
(7,310) 
(5,789) 
Currency translation
 
— 
222 
Constant currency tax (charge)/credit
 
(7,310) 
(5,567) 
Notable items
2024
2023
$m
$m
Tax
Tax (charge)/credit on notable items
 
108 
207 
Uncertain tax positions
 
— 
427 
Tax expense 
The effective tax rate for 2024 of 22.6% was higher than the 19.1% 
in 2023. The effective tax rate for 2024 was increased by 4.8 
percentage points by the non-deductible loss on disposal of our 
business in Argentina and by 0.7 percentage points by the tax charge 
arising under the Global Minimum Tax rules, and reduced by 3.6 
percentage points by the non-taxable gain on disposal of our banking 
business in Canada. The effective tax rate for 2023 was increased by 
2.3 percentage points by the non-deductible impairment of 
investments in associates, and reduced by 1.6 percentage points by 
the release of provisions for uncertain tax positions and by 1.5 
percentage points by the non-taxable accounting gain arising on the 
acquisition of SVB UK.
Return on average tangible equity 
In 2024, RoTE was 14.6%, compared with 14.6% in 2023. RoTE 
excluding notables was 16.0% in 2024, compared with 16.2% in 
2023.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
93
Financial review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Consolidated balance sheet
Five-year summary consolidated balance sheet
2024
2023
20221
2021
2020
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Assets
Cash and balances at central banks
 
267,674 
285,868 
327,002 
403,018 
304,481 
Trading assets
 
314,842 
289,159 
218,093 
248,842 
231,990 
Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value 
through profit or loss
 
115,769 
110,643 
100,101 
49,804 
45,553 
Derivatives
 
268,637 
229,714 
284,159 
196,882 
307,726 
Loans and advances to banks
 
102,039 
112,902 
104,475 
83,136 
81,616 
Loans and advances to customers
 
930,658 
938,535 
923,561 
1,045,814 
1,037,987 
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
 
252,549 
252,217 
253,754 
241,648 
230,628 
Financial investments
 
493,166 
442,763 
364,726 
446,274 
490,693 
Assets held for sale
 
27,234 
114,134 
115,919 
3,411 
299 
Other assets
 
244,480 
262,742 
257,496 
239,110 
253,191 
Total assets at 31 Dec
 
3,017,048 
3,038,677 
2,949,286 
2,957,939 
2,984,164 
Liabilities
Deposits by banks
 
73,997 
73,163 
66,722 
101,152 
82,080 
Customer accounts
 
1,654,955 
1,611,647 
1,570,303 
1,710,574 
1,642,780 
Repurchase agreements – non-trading
 
180,880 
172,100 
127,747 
126,670 
111,901 
Trading liabilities
 
65,982 
73,150 
72,353 
84,904 
75,266 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value
 
138,727 
141,426 
127,321 
145,502 
157,439 
Derivatives
 
264,448 
234,772 
285,762 
191,064 
303,001 
Debt securities in issue
 
105,785 
93,917 
78,149 
78,557 
95,492 
Insurance contract liabilities
 
107,629 
120,851 
108,816 
112,745 
107,191 
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale
 
29,011 
108,406 
114,597 
9,005 
— 
Other liabilities
 
203,361 
216,635 
212,319 
190,989 
204,019 
Total liabilities at 31 Dec
 
2,824,775 
2,846,067 
2,764,089 
2,751,162 
2,779,169 
Equity
Total shareholders’ equity
 
184,973 
185,329 
177,833 
198,250 
196,443 
Non-controlling interests
 
7,300 
7,281 
7,364 
8,527 
8,552 
Total equity at 31 Dec
 
192,273 
192,610 
185,197 
206,777 
204,995 
Total liabilities and equity at 31 Dec
 
3,017,048 
3,038,677 
2,949,286 
2,957,939 
2,984,164 
1 From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the financial year ended 
31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly. Comparative data for the years ended 31 December 2021 and 2020 are prepared on an IFRS 4 basis.
 A more detailed consolidated balance sheet is contained in the financial statements on page 343.
Five-year selected financial information
2024
2023
20221
2021
2020
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Called up share capital 
 
8,973 
9,631 
10,147 
10,316 
10,347 
Capital resources2
 
172,386 
171,204 
162,423 
177,786 
184,423 
Undated subordinated loan capital 
 
17 
18 
1,967 
1,968 
1,970 
Preferred securities and dated subordinated loan capital3
 
35,258 
36,413 
29,921 
28,568 
30,721 
Risk-weighted assets
 
838,254 
854,114 
839,720 
838,263 
857,520 
Total shareholders’ equity
 
184,973 
185,329 
177,833 
198,250 
196,443 
Less: preference shares and other equity instruments
 
(19,070) 
(17,719) 
(19,746) 
(22,414) 
(22,414) 
Total ordinary shareholders’ equity
 
165,903 
167,610 
158,087 
175,836 
174,029 
Less: goodwill and intangible assets (net of tax)
 
(11,608) 
(11,900) 
(11,160) 
(17,643) 
(17,606) 
Tangible ordinary shareholders’ equity
 
154,295 
155,710 
146,927 
158,193 
156,423 
Financial statistics
Loans and advances to customers as a percentage of customer accounts
56.2%
58.2%
58.8%
61.1%
63.2%
Average total shareholders’ equity to average total assets
6.12%
6.01%
5.97%
6.62%
6.46%
Net asset value per ordinary share at year-end ($)4
 
9.26 
8.82 
8.01 
8.76 
8.62 
Tangible net asset value per ordinary share at year-end ($)4
 
8.61 
8.19 
7.44 
7.88 
7.75 
Tangible net asset value per fully diluted share at year-end ($)
 
8.54 
8.14 
7.39 
7.84 
7.72 
Number of $0.50 ordinary shares in issue (millions) 
 
17,947 
19,263 
20,294 
20,632 
20,694 
Basic number of $0.50 ordinary shares outstanding, after deducting own shares 
held (millions) 
 
17,918 
19,006 
19,739 
20,073 
20,184 
Basic number of $0.50 ordinary shares outstanding and dilutive potential ordinary 
shares, after deducting own shares held (millions)
 
18,062 
19,135 
19,876 
20,189 
20,272 
Closing foreign exchange translation rates to $:
$1: £
 
0.797 
0.784 
0.830 
0.739 
0.732 
$1: € 
 
0.964 
0.903 
0.937 
0.880 
0.816 
1 From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the financial year ended 
31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly. Comparative data for the years ended 31 December 2021 and 2020 are prepared on an IFRS 4 basis.
2 Capital resources are regulatory total capital, the calculation of which is set out on page 204.
3 Including perpetual preferred securities, details of which can be found in Note 29: Subordinated liabilities on page 416.
4 For the definition, see page 121.
Financial summary
94
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Combined view of customer lending and customer deposits1
2024
2023
$m
$m
Loans and advances to customers
 
930,658 
938,535 
Loans and advances to customers of disposal groups reported in ‘Assets held for sale’
 
965 
73,285 
– banking business in Canada
 
— 
56,129 
– retail banking operations in France
 
— 
16,902 
– private banking business in Germany
 
309 
— 
– business in South Africa
 
656 
— 
– other
 
— 
254 
Non-current assets held for sale
 
12 
92 
Combined customer lending
 
931,635 
1,011,912 
Currency translation
 
— 
(27,137) 
Combined customer lending at constant currency
 
931,635 
984,775 
Customer accounts
 
1,654,955 
1,611,647 
Customer accounts reported in ‘Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale’
 
5,399 
85,950 
– banking business in Canada
 
— 
63,001 
– retail banking operations in France
 
— 
22,307 
– private banking business in Germany
 
2,085 
— 
– business in South Africa
 
3,294 
— 
– other
 
20 
642 
Combined customer deposits
 
1,660,354 
1,697,597 
Currency translation
 
— 
(38,656) 
Combined customer deposits at constant currency
 
1,660,354 
1,658,941 
1 On 9 April 2024, HSBC Latin America B.V. entered into a binding agreement to sell its business in Argentina to Grupo Financiero Galicia (‘Galicia‘). The sale was 
completed on 6 December 2024, so is not included in the table above. 
Balance sheet commentary compared with 31 December 2023
At 31 December 2024, total assets of $3.0tn were $22bn or 1% lower 
on a reported basis and increased by $45bn or 1% on a constant 
currency basis.
Reported loans and advances to customers as a percentage of 
customer accounts was 56.2% compared with 58.2% at 
31 December 2023. The movement in this ratio reflected a higher 
growth in customer accounts than in lending.
Assets
Cash and balances at central banks decreased by $18bn or 6%, 
which included an $11bn adverse impact of foreign currency 
translation differences. The decrease was mainly in HSBC UK, 
reflecting a reduction in repurchase agreements, as well as an 
increase in the deployment of our cash surplus into financial 
investments. Cash also decreased in our legal entities in the US to a 
partial redeployment of surplus liquidity to reverse repurchase 
agreements, and in Hong Kong due to lower balances maintained for 
faster payment system flow. This was partly offset by increases in 
HSBC Bank plc from an increase in deposit bank balances and 
issuances of new commercial paper and certificates of deposit. 
Trading assets increased by $26bn or 9%, mainly as we captured 
increased client activity in equity and debt securities, particularly in 
our legal entity in Hong Kong and in HSBC Bank plc. The increase in 
trading assets also reflected the use of surplus liquidity to fund 
trading activities given the subdued demand for customer lending.
Derivative assets increased by $39bn or 17%, reflecting an increase 
in foreign exchange contracts, mainly in HSBC Bank plc and our legal 
entities in Asia, as a result of foreign exchange rate movements. The 
increase in derivative assets was consistent with the increase in 
derivative liabilities, as the underlying risk is broadly matched.
Loans and advances to customers of $931bn decreased by $8bn or 
1% on a reported basis. This included an adverse impact of foreign 
currency translation differences of $21bn. Loans and advances to 
customers are net of allowances for ECL.
On a constant currency basis, loans and advances to customers 
increased by $14bn, reflecting the following movements.
In WPB, customer lending increased by $2bn, reflecting growth in 
mortgage balances, including in our main legal entities in the UK (up 
$5bn) and the US (up $3bn). There was also growth in lending in 
Private Banking (up $3bn) and in unsecured lending (up $1bn). 
These increases were partly offset by a $7.4bn (€7.1bn) transfer to 
Corporate Centre of a portfolio of home and certain other loans 
retained following the sale of our retail banking operations in France. 
In CMB, customer lending was $6bn higher, reflecting increases in 
our legal entities in mainland China (up $2bn), India (up $2bn), and 
Mexico (up $1bn). There were also increases in HSBC UK (up $2bn) 
and HSBC Bank plc (up $1bn) from higher revolving credit facility 
balances and term lending. These increases were partly offset by a 
reduction in lending balances in our main legal entity in Hong Kong 
(down $3bn) due to lower market wide loan demand and competitive 
pricing. 
In GBM, customer lending balances were broadly stable. There was a 
decrease in lending balances in our main legal entity in Hong Kong 
(down $6bn) due to muted client demand. The reduction was broadly 
offset by growth in our legal entity in Singapore (up $3bn) reflecting 
higher overdraft balances, and in our main legal entity in Australia (up 
$2bn) from higher term lending balances. 
In Corporate Centre, the increase in customer balances of $7bn 
reflected the transfer of balances from WPB, mentioned above. 
Financial investments increased by $50bn or 11%, mainly in our 
main legal entities in Hong Kong and Singapore as well as in HSBC 
UK and HSBC Bank plc from the purchase of debt securities, treasury 
and other eligible bills, as we redeployed our commercial surplus to 
benefit from higher yield curves and enhance our hedging activities on 
net interest income. The increase was across both debt instruments 
held at fair value through other comprehensive income and 
instruments held at amortised cost.
Assets held for sale decreased by $87bn or 76% following the 
completion of the sales of our retail banking operations in France and 
our banking operations in Canada in 2024.
Other assets decreased by $18bn or 7% primarily reflecting a 
reduction in settlement accounts balances, including in HSBC Bank 
plc as well as in our legal entities in the US and Hong Kong. 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
95
Financial review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Liabilities
Customer accounts of $1.7tn increased by $43bn or 3% on a 
reported basis. This included an adverse impact of foreign currency 
translation differences of $32bn.
On a constant currency basis, customer accounts increased by $75bn, 
reflecting the following movements.
In WPB, customer accounts grew by $31bn, reflecting higher interestbearing savings and time deposit balances due to strong deposit 
inflow as interest rates remained high. The increase in customer 
accounts included growth in our main legal entities in Asia (up $30bn) 
and in HSBC UK (up $6bn).
In CMB, customer accounts increased by $25bn, primarily in our legal 
entities in Asia (up $12bn), including in Hong Kong (up $8bn) due to an 
increase in term deposits and in mainland China (up $3bn) due to an 
increase in current and savings accounts. Balances also increased in 
HSBC Bank plc (up $9bn) driven by organic growth from existing 
customers as well as new to bank customers, and in our main legal 
entity in Mexico (up $3bn).
In GBM, customer accounts increased by $20bn, due to higher 
balances in our legal entities in Asia (up $9bn) supported by term 
deposit campaigns, and in HSBC Bank plc (up $8bn) driven by an 
increase in short-term money market account balances. Balances also 
rose in our main legal entity in the Middle East (up $3bn), including in 
term deposits and current accounts.
Debt securities in issue increased by $12bn or 13%, primarily in 
HSBC Bank plc mainly driven by new commercial paper and 
certificates of deposit issued to meet liquidity and funding 
requirements. 
Derivative liabilities increased by $30bn or 13%, which is consistent 
with the increase in derivative assets, since the underlying risk is 
broadly matched.
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale decreased by $79bn or 
73% following the completion of the sales of our retail banking 
operations in France and our banking operations in Canada during 
2024.
Other liabilities decreased by $13bn or 6%, including from a $9bn 
reduction in settlement account balances in our main legal entity in 
the US.
Equity
Total shareholders’ equity, including non-controlling interests, of 
$192bn was stable compared with 31 December 2023.
Shareholders’ equity was increased by profits generated of $24bn and 
net gains through other comprehensive income (‘OCI’) of $2bn. These 
increases were broadly offset by the impact of dividends paid of 
$16bn, and the impact of our $11bn share buy-back activities in 2024. 
The net gains through OCI of $2bn included a favourable movement 
of $6bn due to the recycling of foreign exchange and other reserves 
to the income statement, primarily relating to the completion of 
disposals in Argentina and Canada, as well as a favourable movement 
of $1bn from the effects of hyperinflation. These impacts were partly 
offset by $5bn of exchange differences. 
Financial investments
As part of our interest rate hedging strategy, we hold a portfolio of 
debt instruments, reported within financial investments, which are 
classified as hold-to-collect-and-sell. As a result, the change in value of 
these instruments is recognised through ‘debt instruments at fair 
value through other comprehensive income’ in equity.
At 31 December 2024, we had recognised a pre-tax cumulative 
unrealised loss reserve through other comprehensive income of 
$3.8bn related to these hold-to-collect-and-sell positions, excluding 
investments held in our insurance business. This reflected a $0.1bn 
pre-tax gain in 2024, inclusive of movements on related fair value 
hedges. In 2023, we recognised a loss of $1.0bn in the income 
statement in relation to Treasury repositioning and risk management 
actions in this portfolio, compared with minimal disposal losses in 
2024. Overall, the Group is positively exposed to rising interest rates 
through NII, although there is an adverse impact on our capital base in 
the early stages of a rising interest rate environment due to the fair 
value of hold-to-collect-and-sell instruments. Over time, these adverse 
movements will unwind as the instruments reach maturity, although 
not all will necessarily be held to maturity, or as interest rates begin to 
fall. 
We also hold a portfolio of financial investments measured at 
amortised cost, which are classified as hold-to-collect. At 
31 December 2024, there was a cumulative unrecognised loss of 
$2.9bn. This included an unrealised loss of $2.2bn that related to debt 
instruments held to manage our interest rate exposure, representing 
a deterioration of $1.2bn during 2024.
Customer accounts by country/territory
2024
2023
$m
$m
Hong Kong
 
575,141 
543,504 
UK
 
524,251 
508,181 
US
 
99,278 
99,607 
Singapore
 
76,737 
73,547 
Mainland China
 
63,169 
56,006 
France
 
40,384 
42,666 
Australia
 
31,951 
32,071 
Germany1
 
23,564 
30,641 
Mexico
 
27,525 
29,423 
UAE
 
28,008 
24,882 
India
 
27,199 
24,377 
Taiwan
 
17,067 
16,949 
Malaysia
 
17,038 
15,983 
Egypt
 
4,137 
5,858 
Indonesia
 
5,558 
5,599 
Türkiye
 
3,489 
3,510 
Other1
 
90,459 
98,843 
At 31 Dec
 
1,654,955 
1,611,647 
1 At 31 December 2024, customer accounts of $5bn met the criteria to be classified as held for sale and are reported within ‘Liabilities of disposal groups held for 
sale’ on the balance sheet, of which $3bn and $2bn belongs to the planned sale of our South Africa business and planned sale of our private banking business in 
Germany, respectively. Refer to Note 23 on page 411 for further details.
Financial summary
96
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Loans and advances, deposits by currency
At
31 Dec 2024
$m
USD
GBP
HKD
EUR
CNY
Others1
Total
Loans and advances to banks
 
33,727 
15,267 
5,340 
4,137 
8,129 
35,439 
102,039 
Loans and advances to customers
 
171,530 
286,797 
203,586 
68,437 
51,966 
148,342 
930,658 
Total loans and advances
 
205,257 
302,064 
208,926 
72,574 
60,095 
183,781 
1,032,697 
Deposits by banks
 
31,415 
18,771 
3,973 
8,788 
4,114 
6,936 
73,997 
Customer accounts
 
476,210 
426,747 
316,997 
124,452 
67,405 
243,144 
1,654,955 
Total deposits
 
507,625 
445,518 
320,970 
133,240 
71,519 
250,080 
1,728,952 
31 Dec 2023
Loans and advances to banks
 
33,231 
15,632 
7,106 
4,688 
8,772 
43,473 
112,902 
Loans and advances to customers
 
170,274 
284,261 
213,079 
68,655 
49,594 
152,672 
938,535 
Total loans and advances
 
203,505 
299,893 
220,185 
73,343 
58,366 
196,145 
1,051,437 
Deposits by banks
 
28,744 
18,231 
2,597 
6,997 
4,517 
12,077 
73,163 
Customer accounts
 
441,967 
423,725 
305,520 
128,444 
63,535 
248,456 
1,611,647 
Total deposits
 
470,711 
441,956 
308,117 
135,441 
68,052 
260,533 
1,684,810 
1 ‘Others’ includes items with no currency information available of $878m for loans to banks (2023: $1,592m), $941m for loans to customers (2023: $1,904m), nil 
for deposits by banks (2023: $11m) and $6m for customer accounts (2023: $8m).
Risk-weighted assets
Risk-weighted assets (‘RWAs‘) decreased by $15.8bn during the year, 
primarily due to strategic disposals of $47.8bn, a decrease of $22.2bn 
from foreign currency translation differences and a $8.9bn reduction 
from methodology and policy changes, mainly driven by a $7.5bn fall 
due to regulatory changes related to the risk-weighting of residential 
mortgages in Hong Kong. These were offset by the increase of 
$63.1bn RWAs, reflected in the following movements:
–
a $49.4bn increase in asset size, which was in part attributed to a 
$14.6bn rise in operational risk, driven by an increase in average 
income. Further increases were due to corporate lending growth, 
largely in HSBC UK Bank plc and in SAB, higher sovereign 
exposures in Other trading entities and Asia, and retail mortgage 
growth in the US and HSBC UK Bank plc; and
–
a $7.4bn increase mainly following a revision to the definition of 
default in our probability of default (‘PD‘) models for exposures to 
financial institutions and post-model adjustments in Hong Kong, 
and a $6.3bn increase from credit risk migrations in Asia, including 
in the Hong Kong commercial real estate sector.
In January 2025, the PRA announced the delay of Basel 3.1 
implementation to 1 January 2027 pending US developments. The 
near-final rules released in September 2024 are now subject to a 
three-year transitional provision, ensuring that the date for full 
implementation remains 1 January 2030. We expect that the impact 
on our CET1 ratio will be a modest benefit.
RWAs by currency
At
31 Dec 2024
$m
USD
GBP
HKD
EUR
CNY
Others
Total
RWAs1
 
205,645 
165,684 
136,001 
67,440 
56,561 
206,923 
838,254 
31 Dec 2023
RWAs1
 
202,697 
155,231 
135,701 
69,996 
57,907 
232,582 
854,114 
1 RWAs include credit risk, market risk and operational risk RWAs.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
97
Financial review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Global businesses and legal 
entities
Contents
98
Summary
99
Supplementary analysis of constant currency results and notable 
items by global business
103
Reconciliation of reported and constant currency risk-weighted assets
104
Supplementary tables for WPB and GBM
110
Analysis of reported results by legal entities
113
Summary information – legal entities and selected countries/territories
118
Analysis by country/territory
Summary
The Group CEO, supported in 2024 by the Group Executive 
Committee (‘GEC‘), reviewed operating activity on a number of bases, 
including by global business and legal entities. Up to 31 December 
2024, our global businesses – Wealth and Personal Banking, 
Commercial Banking, and Global Banking and Markets – along with 
Corporate Centre were our reportable segments under IFRS 8 
‘Operating Segments’ and are presented below and in Note 10: 
Segmental analysis on page 383. Following our organisational 
announcement in October 2024, effective from 1 January 2025 the 
Group’s operating segments will comprise four new businesses – 
Hong Kong, UK, Corporate and Institutional Banking, and International 
Wealth and Premier Banking – along with Corporate Centre. These 
will replace our previously reported operating segments up to 
31 December 2024. 
 For further details of our new operating segments effective from 1 January 
2025, see page 103.
Basis of preparation
The Group CEO, supported in 2024 by the rest of the GEC, is 
considered the Chief Operating Decision Maker (‘CODM’) for the 
purposes of identifying the Group’s reportable segments. Global 
business results are assessed by the CODM on the basis of 
constant currency performance. We separately disclose ‘notable 
items’, which are components of our income statement that 
management would consider as outside the normal course of 
business and generally non-recurring in nature. Constant currency 
performance information for 2023 and 2022 are presented as 
described on page 87. As required by IFRS 8, reconciliations of the 
total constant currency global business results to the Group’s 
reported results are presented on page 384. 
Supplementary reconciliations from reported to constant currency 
results by global business are presented on pages 99 to 101 for 
information purposes.
Global business performance is also assessed using return on 
tangible equity (‘RoTE’). A reconciliation of global business RoTE to 
the Group’s RoTE is provided on page 123.
Our operations are closely integrated and, accordingly, the 
presentation of data includes internal allocations of certain items of 
income and expense. These allocations include the costs of certain 
support services and global functions to the extent that they can be 
meaningfully attributed to global businesses and legal entities. While 
such allocations have been made on a systematic and consistent 
basis, they necessarily involve a degree of subjectivity. Costs that 
are not allocated to global businesses are included in Corporate 
Centre.
Where relevant, income and expense amounts presented include 
the results of inter-segment funding along with inter-company and 
inter-business line transactions. All such transactions are undertaken 
on arm’s length terms. The intra-Group elimination items for the 
global businesses are presented in Corporate Centre.
HSBC Holdings incurs the liability of the UK bank levy, with the cost 
being recharged to its UK operating subsidiaries. The current year 
expense will be reflected in the fourth quarter as it is assessed on 
our balance sheet position as at 31 December.
The results of main legal entities are presented on a reported and 
constant currency basis, including HSBC UK Bank plc, HSBC Bank 
plc, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, 
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited, HSBC North America Holdings 
Inc., HSBC Bank Canada and Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V. 
The results of legal entities are presented on a reported basis on 
page 110 and a constant currency basis on page 113.
Global businesses
98
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Supplementary analysis of constant currency results and notable items by 
global business
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Revenue3
 
28,674 
21,580 
17,529 
(1,929) 
65,854 
ECL
 
(1,335) 
(1,815) 
(235) 
(29) 
(3,414) 
Operating expenses
 
(15,204) 
(7,906) 
(10,231) 
298 
(33,043) 
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures
 
47 
1 
— 
2,864 
2,912 
Profit/(loss) before tax
 
12,182 
11,860 
7,063 
1,204 
32,309 
Loans and advances to customers (net)
 
447,085 
306,926 
169,516 
7,131 
930,658 
Customer accounts
 
823,267 
490,475 
340,898 
315 
1,654,955 
 
Constant currency results1
2024
Wealth and
Personal
Banking2
Commercial
Banking
Global
Banking and
Markets
Corporate
Centre
Total
1 In the current period constant currency results are equal to reported as there is no currency translation.
2 On 1 January 2024, HSBC Continental Europe completed the sale of its retail banking operations in France to CCF, a subsidiary of Promontoria MMB SAS (‘My 
Money Group’). With effect from this date, we have prospectively reclassified the portfolio of retained loans, profit participation interest and licence agreement of 
the CCF brand from WPB to Corporate Centre.
3 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
Notable items
2024
Wealth and 
Personal 
Banking
Commercial 
Banking
Global 
Banking and 
Markets
Corporate 
Centre
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Notable items
Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs1
 
28 
— 
(14) 
(1,357) 
(1,343) 
– of which:
Argentina1
 
— 
— 
— 
(6,138) 
(6,138) 
Canada2
 
— 
— 
— 
4,924 
4,924 
France
 
55 
— 
— 
5 
60 
Early redemption of legacy securities
 
— 
— 
— 
(237) 
(237) 
Operating expenses
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs
 
(3) 
(2) 
(2) 
(192) 
(199) 
– of which:
Argentina
 
— 
(9) 
— 
(34) 
(43) 
Canada
 
(1) 
(1) 
— 
(151) 
(153) 
France
 
1 
— 
— 
(6) 
(5) 
Restructuring and other related costs3
 
(10) 
2 
(1) 
(25) 
(34) 
1 Includes $1.0bn loss on disposal and a $5.2bn loss on the recycling in foreign currency translation reserve losses and other reserves arising on sale of our 
business in Argentina. 
2 Includes $4.8bn gain on disposal of our banking business in Canada, inclusive of a $0.3bn gain on the foreign exchange hedging of the sales proceeds, the 
recycling of $0.6bn in foreign currency translation reserve losses and $0.4bn of other reserves losses.
3 Amounts relate to restructuring provisions recognised in 2024 and reversals of restructuring provisions recognised during 2022.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
99
Financial review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Reconciliation of reported results to constant currency results – global businesses (continued)
2023
Wealth and 
Personal 
Banking
Commercial
Banking
Global 
Banking and 
Markets
Corporate
Centre
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Revenue1
Reported
 
27,275 
22,867 
16,115 
(199) 
66,058 
Currency translation
 
(427) 
(471) 
(344) 
96 
(1,146) 
Constant currency
 
26,848 
22,396 
15,771 
(103) 
64,912 
ECL
Reported
 
(1,058) 
(2,062) 
(326) 
(1) 
(3,447) 
Currency translation
 
123 
56 
9 
— 
188 
Constant currency
 
(935) 
(2,006) 
(317) 
(1) 
(3,259) 
Operating expenses
Reported
 
(14,738) 
(7,524) 
(9,865) 
57 
(32,070) 
Currency translation
 
386 
290 
(7) 
(93) 
576 
Constant currency
 
(14,352) 
(7,234) 
(9,872) 
(36) 
(31,494) 
Share of profit/(loss) in associates and joint ventures
Reported
 
65 
(1) 
— 
(257) 
(193) 
Currency translation
 
(1) 
— 
— 
(62) 
(63) 
Constant currency
 
64 
(1) 
— 
(319) 
(256) 
Profit/(loss) before tax
Reported
 
11,544 
13,280 
5,924 
(400) 
30,348 
Currency translation
 
81 
(125) 
(342) 
(59) 
(445) 
Constant currency
 
11,625 
13,155 
5,582 
(459) 
29,903 
Loans and advances to customers (net)
Reported
 
454,878 
309,422 
173,966 
269 
938,535 
Currency translation
 
(10,022) 
(8,319) 
(3,098) 
(7) 
(21,446) 
Constant currency
 
444,856 
301,103 
170,868 
262 
917,089 
Customer accounts
Reported
 
804,863 
475,666 
330,522 
596 
1,611,647 
Currency translation
 
(12,153) 
(10,571) 
(9,296) 
(14) 
(32,034) 
Constant currency
 
792,710 
465,095 
321,226 
582 
1,579,613 
1 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
Notable items (continued)
2023
Wealth and 
Personal 
Banking
Commercial 
Banking
Global 
Banking and 
Markets
Corporate 
Centre
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Notable items
Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs1,2,3
 
4 
1,591 
— 
(297) 
1,298 
Fair value movements on financial instruments4
 
— 
— 
— 
14 
14 
Disposal losses on Markets Treasury repositioning
 
(391) 
(316) 
(270) 
— 
(977) 
Operating expenses
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs
 
(53) 
(55) 
3 
(216) 
(321) 
Restructuring and other related costs5
 
20 
32 
21 
63 
136 
Impairment of interest in associate6
 
— 
— 
— 
(3,000) 
(3,000) 
1 Includes the impact of the sale of our retail banking operations in France.
2 Includes the gain of $1.6bn recognised in respect of the acquisition of SVB UK.
3 Includes fair value movements on the foreign exchange hedging of the proceeds from the sale of our banking business in Canada.
4 Fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges in HSBC Holdings.
5 Amounts relate to reversals of restructuring provisions recognised during 2022.
6 Relates to an impairment loss of $3.0bn recognised in respect of the Group’s investment in BoCom. See Note 18 on page 401 to 402.
Global businesses
100
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Reconciliation of reported results to constant currency results – global businesses (continued)
2022
Wealth and 
Personal 
Banking
Commercial
Banking
Global 
Banking and 
Markets
Corporate
Centre
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Revenue1
Reported
 
21,103 
16,494 
14,899 
(1,876) 
50,620 
Currency translation
 
(331) 
(287) 
(357) 
(58) 
(1,033) 
Constant currency
 
20,772 
16,207 
14,542 
(1,934) 
49,587 
ECL
Reported
 
(1,130) 
(1,849) 
(595) 
(10) 
(3,584) 
Currency translation
 
(30) 
(19) 
17 
1 
(31) 
Constant currency
 
(1,160) 
(1,868) 
(578) 
(9) 
(3,615) 
Operating expenses
Reported
 
(14,415) 
(7,052) 
(9,383) 
(1,851) 
(32,701) 
Currency translation
 
274 
242 
(20) 
(24) 
472 
Constant currency
 
(14,141) 
(6,810) 
(9,403) 
(1,875) 
(32,229) 
Share of profit/(loss) in associates and joint ventures
Reported
 
30 
— 
(2) 
2,695 
2,723 
Currency translation
 
(1) 
1 
— 
(164) 
(164) 
Constant currency
 
29 
1 
(2) 
2,531 
2,559 
Profit/(loss) before tax
Reported
 
5,588 
7,593 
4,919 
(1,042) 
17,058 
Currency translation
 
(88) 
(63) 
(360) 
(245) 
(756) 
Constant currency
 
5,500 
7,530 
4,559 
(1,287) 
16,302 
Loans and advances to customers (net)
Reported
 
422,309 
311,957 
188,940 
355 
923,561 
Currency translation
 
2,763 
(2,733) 
(2,287) 
(5) 
(2,262) 
Constant currency
 
425,072 
309,224 
186,653 
350 
921,299 
Customer accounts
Reported
 
779,310 
463,928 
326,630 
435 
1,570,303 
Currency translation
 
2,571 
(1,122) 
(3,210) 
8 
(1,753) 
Constant currency
 
781,881 
462,806 
323,420 
443 
1,568,550 
1 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
Notable items (continued)
2022
Wealth and 
Personal 
Banking
Commercial 
Banking
Global 
Banking and 
Markets
Corporate 
Centre
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Notable items
Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs1
 
(2,212) 
— 
— 
(525) 
(2,737) 
Fair value movements on financial instruments2
 
— 
— 
— 
(618) 
(618) 
Restructuring and other related costs3
 
98 
(16) 
(184) 
(145) 
(247) 
Operating expenses
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs
 
(7) 
— 
— 
(11) 
(18) 
Restructuring and other related costs
 
(357) 
(266) 
(252) 
(2,007) 
(2,882) 
1 Includes losses from classifying businesses as held for sale as part of a broader restructuring of our European business, of which $2.3bn (inclusive of $0.4bn in 
goodwill impairments) related to the sale of the retail banking operations in France. Held-for-sale classification for the sale of the retail banking operations in 
France was reversed in 1Q23 ($2.1bn loss reversed) and reinstated in 4Q23 ($2.0bn loss reinstated).
2 Fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges in HSBC Holdings.
3 Comprises gains and losses relating to the business update in February 2020, including losses associated with the RWA reduction programme.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
101
Financial review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Strategic transactions supplementary analysis
The following table presents the selected impacts of strategic 
transactions to the Group and our global business segments. These 
comprise the strategic transactions where the financial impacts of the 
acquisition or disposal have qualified for material notable item 
treatment in our results. Material notable items are a subset of 
notable items and categorisation is dependent on the financial impact 
on the Group’s income statement. At 2024, strategic transactions 
classified as material notable items in current and comparative 
periods comprise the disposal of our retail banking operations in 
France, our banking business in Canada, the sale of our business in 
Argentina and the acquisition of SVB UK. 
The impacts quoted include the gains or losses on classification to 
held for sale or acquisition and all other related notable items. They 
also include the distorting impact between the periods of the 
operating income statement results related to acquisitions and 
disposals that affect period-on-period comparisons. It is computed by 
including the operating income statement results of each business in 
any period for which there are no results in the comparative period. 
We consider the monthly impacts of distorting income statement 
results when calculating the impact of strategic transactions. 
Constant currency results
2024
Wealth and
Personal
Banking
Commercial
Banking
Global
Banking and
Markets
Corporate
Centre
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Revenue
 
54 
179 
— 
(1,209) 
(976) 
ECL
 
— 
(3) 
— 
— 
(3) 
Operating expenses
 
(7) 
(76) 
— 
(191) 
(274) 
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Profit before tax
 
47 
100 
— 
(1,400) 
(1,253) 
– HSBC Innovation Banking1
 
100 
 
— 
100 
– Retail banking operations in France
 
47 
 
(1) 
46 
– Banking business in Canada
 
4,773 
4,773 
– Business in Argentina
 
(6,172) 
(6,172) 
of which: notable items
Revenue
 
55 
— 
— 
(1,209) 
(1,154) 
Profit before tax
 
55 
7 
— 
(1,400) 
(1,338) 
of which: distorting impact of operating results between periods
Revenue
 
(1) 
179 
— 
— 
178 
Profit/(loss) before tax
 
(8) 
93 
— 
— 
85 
2023
Revenue
 
690 
2,407 
49 
(231) 
2,915 
ECL
 
22 
(72) 
11 
— 
(39) 
Operating expenses
 
(658) 
(331) 
(59) 
(218) 
(1,266) 
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Profit/(loss) before tax
 
54 
2,004 
1 
(449) 
1,610 
– HSBC Innovation Banking1
 
1,583 
 
— 
1,583 
– Retail banking operations in France
 
(141) 
 
(26) 
(167) 
– Banking business in Canada
 
211 
400 
82 
(424) 
269 
– Business in Argentina
 
(16) 
21 
(81) 
— 
(76) 
of which: notable items
Revenue
 
41 
1,659 
— 
(231) 
1,469 
Profit before tax
 
(11) 
1,607 
— 
(449) 
1,147 
of which: distorting impact of operating results between periods
Revenue
 
649 
748 
49 
— 
1,446 
Profit before tax
 
65 
397 
1 
— 
463 
1 Includes the impact of our acquisition of SVB UK, which in June 2023 changed its legal entity name to HSBC Innovation Bank Limited.
Global businesses
102
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Reconciliation of reported and constant currency risk-weighted assets
At 31 Dec 2024
Wealth and 
Personal 
Banking
Commercial
Banking
Global
Banking and
Markets
Corporate 
Centre
Total
$bn
$bn
$bn
$bn
$bn
Risk-weighted assets
Reported
 
181.1 
337.9 
231.9 
87.4 
838.3 
Constant currency
 
181.1 
337.9 
231.9 
87.4 
838.3 
At 31 Dec 2023
Risk-weighted assets
Reported
 
192.9 
354.5 
218.5 
88.2 
854.1 
Currency translation
 
(6.8) 
(12.6) 
(4.8) 
(1.1) 
(25.3) 
Constant currency
 
186.1 
341.9 
213.7 
87.1 
828.8 
At 31 Dec 2022
Risk-weighted assets
Reported
 
182.9 
342.4 
225.9 
88.5 
839.7 
Currency translation
 
(4.1) 
(9.3) 
(4.2) 
(0.5) 
(18.1) 
Constant currency
 
178.8 
333.1 
221.7 
88.0 
821.6 
New operating segments effective 1 January 2025 - summary results
Effective from 1 January 2025, the Group’s reporting segments under 
IFRS 8 ‘Operating Segments’ will comprise four new businesses –
Hong Kong, UK, Corporate and Institutional Banking, and International 
Wealth and Premier Banking – along with Corporate Centre. These 
will replace our previously reported operating segments up to 
31 December 2024. 
The Hong Kong business comprises Personal Banking and 
Commercial Banking of HSBC Hong Kong and Hang Seng Bank. The 
UK business comprises UK Personal Banking (including first direct and 
M&S Bank) and UK Commercial Banking including HSBC Innovation 
Bank. Corporate and Institutional Banking integrates the Commercial 
Banking business outside of the UK and Hong Kong together with the 
Global Banking and Markets business, the UK non-ringfenced bank 
(HSBC Bank plc), Europe, and the Americas. International Wealth and 
Premier Banking comprises Premier banking outside of Hong Kong 
and the UK, our Global Private Bank, and our wealth manufacturing 
businesses of Asset Management and Insurance.
Selected 2024 financial information have been re-presented, for 
illustrative purposes only, to align with the Group’s operating 
segments effective from 1 January 2025 and are presented in the 
following table. No additional adjustments have been made to this 
information other than to reflect the presentation of the Group’s new 
operating segments, and there are no changes to the Group’s total 
figures as disclosed in this Annual Report and Accounts 2024. All data 
presented in the following table is unaudited.
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Revenue
 
15,034 
11,954 
26,819 
13,976 
(1,929) 
65,854 
ECL
 
(1,076) 
(402) 
(869) 
(1,038) 
(29) 
(3,414) 
Operating expenses
 
(4,837) 
(4,947) 
(14,544) 
(9,013) 
298 
(33,043) 
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures less 
impairment
 
— 
— 
1 
47 
2,864 
2,912 
Profit before tax
 
9,121 
6,605 
11,407 
3,972 
1,204 
32,309 
RoTE (%)
c.38%
c.25%
c.14%
c.16%
c.1%
14.6%
At 31 Dec 2024
Loans and advances to customers (net)
 
235,208 
267,293 
284,701 
136,325 
7,131 
930,658 
Customer accounts
 
507,389 
330,012 
557,796 
259,443 
315 
1,654,955 
RWAs
 
143,668 
133,495 
388,047 
85,673 
87,371 
838,254 
2024
Hong Kong
UK
Corporate 
and 
Institutional 
Banking
International 
Wealth and 
Premier 
Banking
Corporate
Centre
Total
 For further details of our organisational update, see page 5.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
103
Financial review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Supplementary tables for WPB and GBM
WPB constant currency performance by business unit
A breakdown of WPB by business unit is presented below to reflect the basis of how the revenue performance of the business units is 
assessed and managed.
WPB – summary (constant currency basis)
Consists of1
Total 
WPB
Banking 
operations
Life
insurance
Global 
Private 
Banking
Asset 
management
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
2024
Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit 
impairment charges2
 
28,674 
22,842 
1,840 
2,611 
1,381 
– net interest income
 
20,352 
18,819 
326 
1,193 
14 
– net fee income/(expense)
 
5,930 
3,452 
177 
1,015 
1,286 
– other income
 
2,392 
571 
1,337 
403 
81 
ECL
 
(1,335) 
(1,334) 
— 
(1) 
— 
Net operating income
 
27,339 
21,508 
1,840 
2,610 
1,381 
Total operating expenses
 
(15,204) 
(11,728) 
(716) 
(1,752) 
(1,008) 
Operating profit
 
12,135 
9,780 
1,124 
858 
373 
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures
 
47 
14 
33 
— 
— 
Profit before tax
 
12,182 
9,794 
1,157 
858 
373 
2023
Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit 
impairment charges2
 
26,848 
21,920 
1,396 
2,268 
1,264 
– net interest income
 
19,902 
18,455 
282 
1,167 
(2) 
– net fee income/(expense)
 
5,283 
3,148 
147 
800 
1,188 
– other income
 
1,663 
317 
967 
301 
78 
ECL
 
(935) 
(933) 
4 
(6) 
— 
Net operating income
 
25,913 
20,987 
1,400 
2,262 
1,264 
Total operating expenses
 
(14,352) 
(11,075) 
(683) 
(1,639) 
(955) 
Operating profit
 
11,561 
9,912 
717 
623 
309 
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures
 
64 
14 
50 
— 
— 
Profit before tax
 
11,625 
9,926 
767 
623 
309 
2022
Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other 
credit impairment charges2
 
20,772 
16,267 
1,337 
2,039 
1,129 
– net interest income
 
15,887 
14,576 
342 
975 
(6) 
– net fee income/(expense)
 
5,290 
3,241 
150 
795 
1,104 
– other income
 
(405) 
(1,550) 
845 
269 
31 
ECL
 
(1,160) 
(1,146) 
(8) 
(5) 
(1) 
Net operating income
 
19,612 
15,121 
1,329 
2,034 
1,128 
Total operating expenses
 
(14,141) 
(11,001) 
(787) 
(1,495) 
(858) 
Operating profit
 
5,471 
4,120 
542 
539 
270 
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures
 
29 
12 
17 
— 
— 
Profit before tax
 
5,500 
4,132 
559 
539 
270 
1 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue. 
2 From 1 January 2023, we adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, which replaced IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’. Comparative data for the year ended 
31 December 2022 have been restated accordingly. 
Global businesses
104
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Life insurance business performance
The following table provides an analysis of the performance of our life insurance business for the period. It comprises income earned by our 
insurance manufacturing operations within our WPB business, as well as income earned and costs incurred within our Wealth insurance 
distribution channels, consolidation and inter-company elimination entries. 
Results of WPB’s life insurance business unit (constant currency basis)
2024
2023
2022
Insurance 
manufacturing 
operations
Wealth 
insurance 
and other1
Life 
insurance
Insurance 
manufacturing 
operations
Wealth 
insurance 
and other1
Life 
insurance
Insurance 
manufacturing 
operations
Wealth 
insurance 
and other1
Life 
insurance
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Net interest income
 
326 
— 
326 
282 
— 
282 
345 
(3) 
342 
Net fee income/(expense)
 
10 
167 
177 
(25) 
172 
147 
(31) 
181 
150 
Other income
 
1,331 
6 
1,337 
975 
(8) 
967 
832 
13 
845 
– insurance service result
 
1,356 
(15) 
1,341 
1,120 
(31) 
1,089 
868 
(19) 
849 
– net investment returns (excluding net 
interest income)
 
(162) 
(15) 
(177) 
(198) 
55 
(143) 
(196) 
(24) 
(220) 
– other operating income
 
137 
36 
173 
53 
(32) 
21 
160 
56 
216 
Net operating income before change in 
expected credit losses and other credit 
impairment charges2
 
1,667 
173 
1,840 
1,232 
164 
1,396 
1,146 
191 
1,337 
ECL
 
— 
— 
— 
4 
— 
4 
(9) 
1 
(8) 
Net operating income
 
1,667 
173 
1,840 
1,236 
164 
1,400 
1,137 
192 
1,329 
Total operating expenses
 
(601) 
(115) 
(716) 
(570) 
(113) 
(683) 
(593) 
(194) 
(787) 
Operating profit
 
1,066 
58 
1,124 
666 
51 
717 
544 
(2) 
542 
Share of profit/(loss) in associates and joint 
ventures
 
33 
— 
33 
50 
— 
50 
17 
— 
17 
Profit before tax
 
1,099 
58 
1,157 
716 
51 
767 
561 
(2) 
559 
1 ‘Wealth insurance and other’ includes fee income earned and operating expenses incurred within our Wealth distribution channels. It also includes the IFRS 17 
consolidation entries arising from transactions between our insurance manufacturing operations and Wealth distribution channels and with the wider Group, as 
well as allocations of central costs benefiting life insurance. 
2 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
105
Financial review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

WPB insurance manufacturing (constant currency basis) 
The following table shows the results of our insurance manufacturing operations for our WPB business and for all global business segments in 
aggregate.
Results of insurance manufacturing operations1,2
2024
2023
2022
WPB
All global
businesses
WPB
All global
businesses
WPB
All global
businesses
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Net interest income 
 
326 
363 
282 
321 
345 
370 
Net fee expense
 
10 
21 
(25) 
(13) 
(31) 
(16) 
Other income
 
1,331 
1,326 
975 
965 
832 
842 
Insurance service result
 
1,356 
1,356 
1,120 
1,119 
868 
872 
– release of contractual service margin
 
1,290 
1,290 
1,087 
1,087 
900 
900 
– risk adjustment release
 
74 
74 
44 
44 
47 
47 
– experience variance and other
 
36 
36 
31 
30 
50 
54 
– loss from onerous contracts
 
(44) 
(44) 
(42) 
(42) 
(129) 
(129) 
Net investment returns (excluding net interest income)3
 
(162) 
(165) 
(198) 
(205) 
(196) 
(208) 
– insurance finance income/(expense)
 
(5,985) 
(5,985) 
(7,718) 
(7,718) 
13,882 
13,885 
– other investment income
 
5,823 
5,820 
7,520 
7,513 
(14,078) 
(14,093) 
Other operating income
 
137 
135 
53 
51 
160 
178 
Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other 
credit impairment charges4,5
 
1,667 
1,710 
1,232 
1,273 
1,146 
1,196 
Change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges
 
— 
— 
4 
4 
(9) 
(9) 
Net operating income
 
1,667 
1,710 
1,236 
1,277 
1,137 
1,187 
Total operating expenses
 
(601) 
(602) 
(570) 
(580) 
(593) 
(589) 
Operating profit
 
1,066 
1,108 
666 
697 
544 
598 
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures
 
33 
33 
50 
50 
17 
17 
Profit before tax of insurance business operations5
 
1,099 
1,141 
716 
747 
561 
615 
Additional information
Insurance manufacturing new business contractual service margin (reported basis)
 
2,515 
2,515 
1,686 
1,686 
1,111 
1,111 
Consolidated Group new business contractual service margin (reported basis)
 
2,729 
2,729 
1,812 
1,812 
1,229 
1,229 
Annualised new business premiums of insurance manufacturing operations
 
4,912 
4,912 
3,797 
3,797 
2,354 
2,354 
Net dividends of insurance manufacturing operations (reported basis)6
 
1,522 
1,522 
813 
813 
(152) 
(152) 
1 Constant currency results are derived by adjusting for period-on-period effects of foreign currency translation differences. The impact of foreign currency 
translation differences on ‘All global businesses’ profit before tax was a $13m decrease for 2023 and a $60m decrease for 2022. 
2 The results presented for insurance manufacturing are shown before elimination of inter-company transactions with HSBC non-insurance operations. The ‘All 
global businesses‘ result consists primarily of WPB business, as well as a small proportion of CMB business.
3 Net investment return under IFRS 17 for all global businesses for 2024 was $198m (2023: $116m; 2022: $162m), which consisted of net interest income, net 
income/(expenses) on assets held at fair value through profit or loss, and insurance finance income/(expense).
4 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
5 
The effect of applying hyperinflation accounting in Argentina on insurance manufacturing operations in all global business resulted in a decrease of $53m in revenue in 
2024 (2023: decrease of $35m, 2022: decrease of $7m) and a decrease of $53m in profit before tax in 2024 (2023: decrease of $35m, 2022: decrease of $6m).
6 Net dividends of insurance manufacturing operations include dividends paid to immediate parent companies of $1,612m (2023: $993m; 2022: $606m) net of 
CET1 qualifying injections to fund business growth of $90m (2023: $180m; 2022: $758m including a $528m capital injection to fund the acquisition of AXA 
Singapore).
Insurance manufacturing
The following commentary, unless otherwise specified, relates to the 
‘All global businesses’ results.
Profit before tax of $1.1bn increased by $0.4bn compared with 2023. 
This primarily reflected the following: 
–
Insurance service result of $1.4bn increased by $0.2bn compared 
with 2023 primarily due to an increase in the release of CSM.
–
Net investment return (excluding net interest income) remained 
broadly unchanged, with negative impacts in China from reducing 
interest rates partly offset by gains in other markets.
–
Other operating income increased by $0.1bn compared with 2023, 
with the increase driven by the non-repeat of losses of $0.3bn in 
2023 from corrections to historical valuation estimates, partly 
offset by current period losses on reinsurance contracts in Hong 
Kong.
Profit before tax of $0.7bn in 2023 increased by $0.1bn compared 
with 2022. This primarily reflected the following:
–
Insurance service result of $1.1bn increased by $0.3bn compared 
with 2022. This was driven by an increase in the release of CSM of 
$0.2bn as a result of a higher closing CSM balance. The improved 
insurance service result also reflected a reduction to losses from 
onerous contracts of $0.1bn, mainly in Hong Kong and Singapore, 
in part due to improved market conditions in 2023.
–
Other operating income decreased by $0.1bn compared with 
2022, and included a $0.3bn loss from corrections to historical 
valuation estimates, partly offset by gains of $0.2bn from 
reinsurance contracts in Hong Kong.
Insurance manufacturing new business contractual service margin 
increased by $0.8bn or 49% primarily in Hong Kong, from new 
business volumes increasing and a $0.2bn benefit from recognising a 
new reinsurance contract.
Annualised new business premiums (‘ANP’) is used to assess new 
insurance premiums generated by the business. It is calculated as 
100% of annualised first year regular premiums and 10% of single 
premiums, before reinsurance ceded. ANP in 2024 increased by 29% 
compared with 2023, primarily from strong new business sales in 
Hong Kong.
Insurance equity plus CSM net of tax
Insurance equity plus CSM net of tax is a non-GAAP alternative 
performance measure that provides information about our insurance 
manufacturing operations’ net asset value plus the future earnings 
from in-force business. At 31 December 2024, insurance equity plus 
CSM net of tax was $17,025m (31 December 2023: $16,583m; 
31 December 2022: $14,646m). 
At 31 December 2024, insurance equity plus CSM net of tax was 
calculated as insurance manufacturing operations equity of $7,015m 
plus CSM of $12,063m less tax of $2,053m. At 31 December 2023, it 
was calculated as insurance manufacturing operations equity of 
Global businesses
106
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

$7,731m plus CSM of $10,786m less tax of $1,934m. At 
31 December 2022, it was calculated as insurance manufacturing 
operations equity of $7,236m plus CSM of $9,058m less tax of 
$1,648m.
The increase of $0.4bn in 2024 insurance manufacturing equity plus 
CSM net of tax compared to the prior year includes an increase in 
CSM net of tax of $1.2bn and a reduction in equity of $0.7bn. CSM 
net of tax benefited from strong new business written in the period, 
partially offset by a reduction of $0.6bn from reclassification of our 
French insurance business to held for sale. The reduction in insurance 
manufacturing equity of $0.7bn primarily reflected the benefit of profit 
after tax in the year of $0.9bn offset by net dividends paid of $1.5bn. 
Net dividends of $1.5bn in 2024 have increased by $0.7bn primarily 
due to releases of surplus regulatory capital in Hong Kong.
Insurance metrics no longer reported 
Insurance manufacturing value of new business and Insurance 
manufacturing proxy embedded value were previously presented as 
non-GAAP performance measures. The Group continues to review its 
use of non-GAAP performance measures following implementation of 
IFRS 17 and has now discontinued the reporting of these measures. 
Instead ‘New business CSM’ is now management’s key new 
business performance measure, and ‘Equity plus CSM net of tax’ is 
considered a measure of entity value more closely aligned with 
IFRS 17.
WPB: Wealth balances
The following table shows the wealth balances, which include invested assets and wealth deposits. Invested assets comprise customer assets 
either managed by our Asset Management business or by external third-party investment managers, as well as self-directed investments by our 
customers. 
WPB – reported wealth balances1
2024
2023
$bn
$bn
Global Private Banking invested assets
 
395 
363 
– managed by Global Asset Management
 
68 
61 
– external managers, direct securities and other
 
327 
302 
Retail invested assets
 
409 
383 
– managed by Global Asset Management
 
175 
178 
– external managers, direct securities and other
 
234 
205 
Asset Management third-party distribution
 
489 
445 
Reported invested assets1
 
1,293 
1,191 
Wealth deposits (Premier and Global Private Banking)2
 
555 
536 
Total reported wealth balances
 
1,848 
1,727 
1 Invested assets are not reported on the Group’s balance sheet, except where it is deemed that we are acting as principal rather than agent in our role as 
investment manager. At 31 December 2024, $54bn of invested assets were classified as held for sale and are not included in the table above (2023: $32bn).
2 Premier and Global Private Banking deposits, which include Prestige deposits in Hang Seng Bank, form part of the total WPB customer accounts balance of 
$823bn (2023: $805bn) on page 99. At 31 December 2024, $3bn of wealth deposits were classified as held for sale and are not included in the table above (2023: 
$42bn). 
Asset Management: funds under management
The following table shows the funds under management of our Asset Management business. Funds under management represents assets 
managed, either actively or passively, on behalf of our customers. Funds under management are not reported on the Group’s balance sheet, 
except where it is deemed that we are acting as principal rather than agent in our role as investment manager. 
Asset Management – reported funds under management1
2024
2023
$bn
$bn
Opening balance
 
684 
595 
Net new invested assets
 
30 
54 
Net market movements
 
47 
23 
Foreign exchange and others
 
(18) 
12 
Transfer to Markets Treasury
 
(12) 
— 
Closing balance
 
731 
684 
Asset Management – reported funds under management by legal entities
2024
2023
$bn
$bn
HSBC Bank plc
 
165 
162 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited
 
223 
198 
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
 
67 
71 
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V.
 
15 
15 
Other trading entities2
 
261 
238 
Closing balance
 
731 
684 
1 Funds under management are not reported on the Group’s balance sheet, except where it is deemed that we are acting as principal rather than agent in our role 
as investment manager.
2 Funds under management of $194bn in 2024 and $177bn in 2023 relating to our Asset Management entity in the UK are reported under ‘other trading entities’ in 
the table above. 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
107
Financial review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

At 31 December 2024, Asset Management funds under management amounted to $731bn, an increase of $47bn or 7%. The increase reflected 
net new invested assets of $30bn and a positive impact from market performance. These increases were partly offset by an adverse impact of 
foreign exchange translation of $18bn and from a reduction of $12bn due to a transfer of a portfolio forming part of the Group’s Holdings Capital 
Buffer from Asset Management to our Markets Treasury function. Net new invested assets were mainly in long-term products, primarily passive 
investment, alternative investment, and multi-asset investment products. These inflows were partly offset by redemptions from money market 
instruments in the US.
Global Private Banking: client balances
Global Private Banking client balances comprises invested assets and deposits, which are translated at the rates of exchange applicable for their 
respective year-ends, with the effects of currency translation reported separately. 
Global Private Banking – reported client balances1
2024
2023
$bn
$bn
Opening balance
 
447 
383 
Net new invested assets
 
23 
17 
Increase/(decrease) in deposits
 
1 
9 
Net market movements
 
37 
19 
Foreign exchange and others
 
(24) 
19 
Closing balance
 
484 
447 
Global Private Banking – reported client balances by legal entities
2024
2023
$bn
$bn
HSBC UK Bank plc
 
36 
32 
HSBC Bank plc
 
115 
54 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited
 
251 
209 
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
 
77 
64 
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited
 
3 
— 
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V.
 
2 
3 
Other trading entities
 
— 
85 
Closing balance
 
484 
447 
1 Client balances are not reported on the Group’s balance sheet, except where it is deemed that we are acting as principal rather than agent in our role as 
investment manager. Customer deposits included in these client balances are on balance sheet. 
Retail invested assets
The following table shows the invested assets of our retail customers. These comprise customer assets either managed by our Asset 
Management business or by external third-party investment managers as well as self-directed investments by our customers. 
Retail invested assets are not reported on the Group’s balance sheet, except where it is deemed that we are acting as principal rather than 
agent in our role as investment manager.
Retail invested assets
2024
2023
$bn
$bn
Opening balance
 
383 
363 
Net new invested assets1
 
28 
26 
Net market movements
 
23 
7 
Foreign exchange and others
 
(25) 
(13) 
Closing balance
 
409 
383 
Retail invested assets by legal entities
2024
2023
$bn
$bn
HSBC UK Bank plc
 
31 
29 
HSBC Bank plc
 
8 
31 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited
 
336 
292 
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited
 
3 
3 
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
 
16 
14 
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V.
 
10 
9 
Other trading entities
 
5 
5 
Closing balance
 
409 
383 
1 ‘Retail net new invested assets’ covers nine markets, comprising Hong Kong including Hang Seng Bank (Hong Kong), mainland China, Malaysia, Singapore, 
HSBC UK, UAE, US, Canada and Mexico. The net new invested assets relating to all other geographies is reported in ‘foreign exchange and others’.
Global businesses
108
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

WPB invested assets 
Net new invested assets represents the net customer inflows from retail invested assets, Asset Management third-party distribution and Global 
Private Banking invested assets. It excludes all customer deposits. The net new invested assets in the table below is non-additive from the 
tables above, as net new invested assets managed by Asset Management that are generated by retail clients or Global Private Banking will be 
recorded in both businesses.
WPB: Invested assets
2024
2023
$bn
$bn
Opening balance
 
1,191 
1,015 
Net new invested assets
 
64 
84 
Net market movements
 
97 
43 
Foreign exchange and others
 
(59) 
49 
Closing balance
 
1,293 
1,191 
WPB: Net new invested assets by legal entities
2024
2023
$bn
$bn
HSBC UK Bank plc
 
3 
1 
HSBC Bank plc
 
9 
3 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited
 
47 
47 
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited
 
1 
1 
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
 
(10) 
7 
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V.
 
2 
5 
Other trading entities
 
12 
20 
Total
 
64 
84 
 
GBM: Securities Services and Issuer Services
Assets held in custody
Custody is the safekeeping and servicing of securities and other 
financial assets on behalf of clients. Assets held in custody are not 
reported on the Group’s balance sheet, except where it is deemed 
that we are acting as principal rather than agent in our role as 
investment manager. At 31 December 2024, we held $10.6tn of 
assets as custodian, an increase of 9% compared with 31 December 
2023. The balance comprised $9.7tn of assets in Securities Services, 
which were recorded at market value, and $0.9tn of assets in Issuer 
Services, recorded at book value.
The increase was mainly in Securities Services balances. This was 
driven by net asset inflows in Asia and Europe and favourable market 
movements in Asia, North America and Latin America, partly offset by 
adverse impacts of currency translations in Asia and Europe. 
Assets under administration
Our assets under administration business includes the provision of 
bond and loan administration services, transfer agency services and 
the valuation of portfolios of securities and other financial assets on 
behalf of clients and complements the custody business. At 
31 December 2024, the value of assets held under administration by 
the Group amounted to $5.2tn, which was 6% higher than at 
31 December 2023. The balance comprised $3.1tn of assets in 
Securities Services, which were recorded at market value, and $2.1tn 
of assets in Issuer Services, recorded at book value.
The increase was mainly driven by Securities Services balances due 
to net asset inflows in Europe and Asia together with favourable 
market movement, partly offset by adverse impact of currency 
translations notably in Europe and Asia. Issuer Services balances also 
rose driven by new issuances, including in the UK and the US, as well 
as new assets, including in our legal entity in Hong Kong. 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
109
Financial review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Analysis of reported results by legal entities
HSBC reported profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data
2024
HSBC 
UK Bank 
plc
HSBC 
Bank plc
The 
Hongkong 
and 
Shanghai 
Banking 
Corporation 
Limited
HSBC 
Bank 
Middle 
East 
Limited
HSBC 
North 
America 
Holdings 
Inc.
HSBC 
Bank 
Canada
Grupo 
Financiero 
HSBC, 
S.A. de 
C.V.
Other 
trading 
entities
Holding 
companies, 
shared 
service 
centres and 
intra-Group 
eliminations
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Net interest income
 
10,331 
1,254 
15,077 
1,590 
1,613 
300 
2,292 
2,774 
(2,498) 
32,733 
Net fee income
 
1,672 
1,629 
5,449 
508 
1,372 
129 
630 
1,076 
(164) 
12,301 
Net income from financial 
instruments held for trading or 
managed on a fair value basis
 
580 
6,042 
11,781 
331 
914 
33 
504 
411 
520 
21,116 
Net income from assets and 
liabilities of insurance businesses, 
including related derivatives, 
measured at fair value through profit 
and loss
 
— 
1,100 
4,608 
— 
— 
— 
22 
183 
(12) 
5,901 
Insurance finance income/(expense)
 
— 
(1,261) 
(4,562) 
— 
— 
— 
(26) 
(150) 
21 
(5,978) 
Insurance service result
 
— 
217 
1,042 
— 
— 
— 
76 
(7) 
(18) 
1,310 
Other income/(expense)1
 
169 
576 
658 
75 
365 
— 
75 
(984) 
(2,463) 
(1,529) 
Net operating income before 
change in expected credit losses 
and other credit impairment 
charges2
 
12,752 
9,557 
34,053 
2,504 
4,264 
462 
3,573 
3,303 
(4,614) 
65,854 
Change in expected credit losses 
and other credit impairment charges
 
(405) 
(211) 
(1,532) 
(198) 
(81) 
(40) 
(864) 
(93) 
10 
(3,414) 
Net operating income 
 
12,347 
9,346 
32,521 
2,306 
4,183 
422 
2,709 
3,210 
(4,604) 
62,440 
Total operating expenses excluding 
impairment of goodwill and other 
intangible assets
 
(5,124) 
(6,718) 
(14,296) (1,191) 
(3,349) 
(236) 
(1,992) (1,959) 
1,899 
(32,966) 
Impairment of goodwill and other 
intangible assets
 
(11) 
(5) 
(33) 
(1) 
(2) 
— 
(2) 
(22) 
(1) 
(77) 
Operating profit/(loss)
 
7,212 
2,623 
18,192 
1,114 
832 
186 
715 
1,229 
(2,706) 
29,397 
Share of profit in associates and 
joint ventures less impairment3
 
1 
22 
2,278 
— 
— 
— 
15 
600 
(4) 
2,912 
Profit/(loss) before tax
 
7,213 
2,645 
20,470 
1,114 
832 
186 
730 
1,829 
(2,710) 
32,309 
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
Share of HSBC’s profit before tax
22.2
8.2
63.4
3.4
2.6
0.6
2.3
5.7
(8.4)
100.0
Cost efficiency ratio 
40.3
70.3
42.1
47.6
78.6
51.1
55.8
60.0
41.1
50.2
Balance sheet data
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Loans and advances to customers 
(net)
 272,973 103,464 
449,940 20,440 
55,786 
— 
23,439 
4,617 
(1) 
930,658 
Total assets 
 426,165 914,506 
1,400,456 57,215 253,251 
— 
46,007 26,623 
(107,175) 3,017,048 
Customer accounts
 340,233 297,785 
845,284 34,808 
99,278 
— 
27,525 
9,999 
43 1,654,955 
Risk-weighted assets4,5,6
 138,332 137,609 
402,847 26,624 
74,416 
— 
29,671 50,731 
(648) 
838,254 
Legal entities
110
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

HSBC reported profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data (continued)
2023
HSBC UK 
Bank plc
HSBC 
Bank plc
The 
Hongkong 
and Shanghai 
Banking 
Corporation 
Limited
HSBC 
Bank 
Middle 
East 
Limited
HSBC 
North 
America 
Holdings 
Inc.
HSBC 
Bank 
Canada
Grupo 
Financiero 
HSBC, 
S.A. de 
C.V.
Other 
trading 
entities
Holding 
companies, 
shared 
service 
centres and 
intra-Group 
eliminations
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Net interest income
 
9,684 
2,674 
16,705 
1,551 
1,712 
1,275 
2,148 
3,765 
(3,718) 
35,796 
Net fee income
 
1,597 
1,527 
4,859 
475 
1,237 
559 
581 
1,225 
(215) 
11,845 
Net income from financial 
instruments held for trading or 
managed on a fair value basis
 
516 
4,220 
9,507 
397 
729 
110 
437 
1,054 
(309) 
16,661 
Net income from assets and 
liabilities of insurance businesses, 
including related derivatives, 
measured at fair value through profit 
and loss
 
— 
1,438 
6,258 
— 
— 
— 
39 
323 
(171) 
7,887 
Insurance finance income/(expense)
 
— 
(1,460) 
(6,237) 
— 
— 
— 
(44) 
(166) 
98 
(7,809) 
Insurance service result
 
— 
154 
838 
— 
— 
— 
87 
9 
(10) 
1,078 
Other income/(expense)1
 
1,608 
736 
(31) 
2 
185 
22 
65 (1,481) 
(506) 
600 
Net operating income before change 
in expected credit losses and other 
credit impairment charges2
 
13,405 
9,289 
31,899 
2,425 
3,863 
1,966 
3,313 
4,729 
(4,831) 
66,058 
Change in expected credit losses 
and other credit
impairment charges
 
(523) 
(212) 
(1,641) 
(90) 
(94) 
(46) 
(696) 
(279) 
134 
(3,447) 
Net operating income 
 
12,882 
9,077 
30,258 
2,335 
3,769 
1,920 
2,617 
4,450 
(4,697) 
62,611 
Total operating expenses excluding 
impairment of goodwill and other 
intangible assets
 
(4,602) 
(6,483) 
(13,379) 
(1,095) 
(3,473) (1,049) 
(1,823) (2,631) 
2,180 
(32,355) 
Impairment of goodwill and other 
intangible assets
 
(10) 
97 
(16) 
(1) 
222 
— 
(3) 
(4) 
— 
285 
Operating profit/(loss)
 
8,270 
2,691 
16,863 
1,239 
518 
871 
791 
1,815 
(2,517) 
30,541 
Share of profit in associates and 
joint ventures less impairment3
 
— 
(52) 
(696) 
— 
— 
— 
14 
544 
(3) 
(193) 
Profit/(loss) before tax
 
8,270 
2,639 
16,167 
1,239 
518 
871 
805 
2,359 
(2,520) 
30,348 
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
Share of HSBC’s profit before tax
27.2
8.7
53.3
4.1
1.7
2.9
2.6
7.8
(8.3)
100.0
Cost efficiency ratio 
34.4
68.7
42.0
45.2
84.2
53.4
55.1
55.7
45.1
48.5
Balance sheet data
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Loans and advances to customers 
(net)
 270,208 
95,750 
455,315 20,072 
54,829 
— 
26,410 15,951 
— 
938,535 
Total assets 
 423,029 896,682 
1,333,911 50,612 252,339 90,731 
47,309 59,051 
(114,987) 3,038,677 
Customer accounts
 339,611 274,733 
801,430 31,341 
99,607 
— 
29,423 35,326 
176 1,611,647 
Risk-weighted assets4,5
 129,211 131,468 
396,677 24,294 
72,248 31,890 
32,639 59,574 
6,704 
854,114 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
111
Financial review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

HSBC reported profit/(loss) before tax and balance sheet data (continued)
2022
HSBC UK 
Bank plc
HSBC 
Bank plc
The 
Hongkong 
and Shanghai 
Banking 
Corporation 
Limited
HSBC 
Bank 
Middle 
East 
Limited
HSBC 
North 
America 
Holdings 
Inc.
HSBC 
Bank 
Canada
Grupo 
Financiero 
HSBC, 
S.A. de 
C.V.
Other 
trading 
entities
Holding 
companies, 
shared 
service 
centres and 
intra-Group 
eliminations
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Net interest income
 
7,615 
2,357 
14,031 
903 
1,922 
1,251 
1,796 
2,244 
(1,742) 
30,377 
Net fee income
 
1,536 
1,601 
4,924 
458 
1,223 
598 
455 
1,127 
(152) 
11,770 
Net income from financial 
instruments held for trading or 
managed on a fair value basis
 
472 
3,564 
5,270 
360 
485 
76 
351 
639 
(939) 
10,278 
Net income/(expense) from assets 
and liabilities of insurance 
businesses, including related 
derivatives, measured at fair value 
through profit and loss
 
— 
(1,761) 
(12,117) 
— 
— 
— 
(9) 
66 
(10) 
(13,831) 
Insurance finance income/(expense)
 
— 
1,431 
12,407 
— 
— 
— 
3 
(32) 
(10) 
13,799 
Insurance service result
 
— 
149 
636 
— 
— 
— 
50 
(20) 
(6) 
809 
Other income/(expense)1
 
148 
(1,920) 
491 
22 
533 
29 
67 
(521) 
(1,431) 
(2,582) 
Net operating income before loan 
impairment (charges)/recoveries and 
other credit risk provisions2
 
9,771 
5,421 
25,642 
1,743 
4,163 
1,954 
2,713 
3,503 
(4,290) 
50,620 
Change in expected credit losses 
and other credit impairment 
(charges)/recoveries
 
(563) 
(292) 
(2,090) 
21 
(20) 
(84) 
(507) 
(61) 
12 
(3,584) 
Net operating income 
 
9,208 
5,129 
23,552 
1,764 
4,143 
1,870 
2,206 
3,442 
(4,278) 
47,036 
Total operating expenses excluding 
impairment of goodwill and other 
intangible assets
 
(4,667) 
(6,497) 
(13,011) 
(1,033) 
(3,429) (1,017) 
(1,631) (2,359) 
1,090 
(32,554) 
Impairment of goodwill and other 
intangible assets
 
(54) 
11 
(42) 
(3) 
(9) 
(21) 
(5) 
(2) 
(22) 
(147) 
Operating profit/(loss)
 
4,487 
(1,357) 
10,499 
728 
705 
832 
570 
1,081 
(3,210) 
14,335 
Share of profit in associates and 
joint ventures less impairment
 
— 
(38) 
2,400 
— 
— 
— 
13 
351 
(3) 
2,723 
Profit/(loss) before tax
 
4,487 
(1,395) 
12,899 
728 
705 
832 
583 
1,432 
(3,213) 
17,058 
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
Share of HSBC’s profit before tax
 
26.3 
 
(8.2) 
 
75.6 
 
4.3 
 
4.1 
 
4.9 
 
3.4 
 
8.4 
 
(18.8) 
 
100.0 
Cost efficiency ratio 
 
48.3 
 
119.6 
 
50.9 
 
59.4 
 
82.6 
 
53.1 
 
60.3 
 
67.4 
 
24.9 
 
64.6 
Balance sheet data
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Loans and advances to customers 
(net)
 245,921 
86,964 
473,985 19,762 
54,159 
— 
20,446 22,325 
(1) 
923,561 
Total assets 
 412,522 863,308 
1,297,806 48,086 239,117 94,604 
39,939 67,345 
(113,441) 2,949,286 
Customer accounts
 336,086 253,075 
784,236 29,893 100,404 
— 
25,531 41,078 
— 1,570,303 
Risk-weighted assets4,5
 110,919 127,017 
406,985 22,490 
72,446 31,876 
26,744 60,289 
8,144 
839,720 
1 Other income/(expense) in this context includes gain on acquisitions, impairment gain/(loss) relating to the sale of our retail banking operations in France, and 
other operating income/(expense).
2 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
3 Includes an impairment loss of $3.0bn recognised in respect of the Group’s investment in BoCom.
4 Risk-weighted assets are non-additive across the legal entities due to market risk diversification effects within the Group.
5 Balances are on a third-party Group consolidated basis.
6 Other trading entities’ RWAs balance at 31 December 2024 includes HSBC Argentina operational risk RWAs, due to the averaging calculation and will roll off over 
future reporting cycles.
Legal entities
112
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Summary information – legal entities and selected countries/territories
Legal entity reported and constant currency results¹
2024
HSBC 
UK 
Bank plc
HSBC 
Bank plc
The 
Hongkong 
and 
Shanghai 
Banking 
Corporation 
Limited
HSBC 
Bank 
Middle 
East 
Limited
HSBC 
North 
America 
Holdings 
Inc.
HSBC 
Bank 
Canada
Grupo
Financiero
HSBC, 
S.A.
de C.V.
Other 
trading 
entities2
Holding
companies,
shared
service
centres and
intra-Group
eliminations
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Revenue3
 
12,752 
9,557 
34,053 
2,504 
4,264 
462 
3,573 
3,303 
(4,614) 
65,854 
ECL
 
(405) 
(211) 
(1,532) 
(198) 
(81) 
(40) 
(864) 
(93) 
10 
(3,414) 
Operating expenses
 
(5,135) 
(6,723) 
(14,329) (1,192) 
(3,351) 
(236) 
(1,994) 
(1,981) 
1,898 
(33,043) 
Share of profit in associates and joint 
ventures
 
1 
22 
2,278 
— 
— 
— 
15 
600 
(4) 
2,912 
Profit/(loss) before tax
 
7,213 
2,645 
20,470 
1,114 
832 
186 
730 
1,829 
(2,710) 
32,309 
Loans and advances to customers (net) 272,973 103,464 
449,940 20,440 
55,786 
— 
23,439 
4,617 
(1) 930,658 
Customer accounts
 340,233 297,785 
845,284 34,808 
99,278 
— 
27,525 
9,999 
43 
1,654,955 
1 In the current period, constant currency results are equal to reported, as there is no currency translation.
2 Other trading entities includes the results of entities located in Türkiye, Egypt and Saudi Arabia (including our share of the results of Saudi Awwal Bank) which do 
not consolidate into HSBC Bank Middle East Limited. These entities had an aggregated impact on the Group’s reported profit before tax of $1,429m. 
Supplementary analysis is provided on page 120 to provide a fuller picture of the MENAT regional performance.
3 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
Legal entity results: notable items
2024
HSBC 
UK Bank 
plc
HSBC 
Bank plc
The 
Hongkong 
and 
Shanghai 
Banking 
Corporation 
Limited
HSBC 
Bank 
Middle 
East 
Limited
HSBC 
North 
America 
Holdings 
Inc.
HSBC 
Bank 
Canada
Grupo
Financiero
HSBC, 
S.A.
de C.V.
Other 
trading 
entities
Holding
companies,
shared
service
centres and
intra-Group
eliminations
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and related 
costs1
 
— 
(148) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(23) 
(1,172) (1,343) 
Early redemption of legacy securities
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(237) 
(237) 
Operating expenses
Disposals, acquisitions and related 
costs
 
8 
(9) 
— 
— 
(29) 
(36) 
— 
(61) 
(72) 
(199) 
Restructuring and other related costs2
 
3 
15 
(5) 
(2) 
(4) 
— 
— 
(9) 
(32) 
(34) 
1 Includes a $1.0bn loss on disposal and a $5.2bn loss on the recycling in foreign currency translation reserve losses and other reserves arising on sale of our 
business in Argentina. This is partly offset by a $4.8bn gain on disposal of our banking business in Canada, inclusive of a $0.3bn gain on the foreign exchange 
hedging of the sales proceeds, the recycling of $0.6bn in foreign currency translation reserve losses and $0.4bn of other reserves losses.
2 Amounts relate to restructuring provisions recognised in 2024 and reversals of restructuring provisions recognised during 2022.
Selected countries/territories results1
2024
UK2
Hong
Kong
Mainland
China
US
Mexico
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Revenue3
 
21,017 
22,038 
4,078 
4,216 
3,573 
ECL
 
(526) 
(1,273) 
(121) 
(81) 
(864) 
Operating expenses
 
(13,725) 
(8,886) 
(2,971) 
(3,350) 
(1,994) 
Share of profit/(loss) in associates and joint ventures
 
24 
8 
2,241 
— 
15 
Profit before tax
 
6,790 
11,887 
3,227 
785 
730 
Loans and advances to customers (net)
 
313,925 
272,152 
44,551 
55,786 
23,439 
Customer accounts
 
524,251 
575,141 
63,169 
99,278 
27,525 
1 In the current period, constant currency results are equal to reported, as there is no currency translation.
2 UK includes HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank), HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced bank), the ultimate holding company, HSBC Holdings plc, and the separately 
incorporated group of service companies (‘ServCo Group’).
3 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
113
Financial review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Selected countries/territories results: notable items
2024
UK1
Hong
Kong
Mainland
China
US
Mexico
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs1,2
 
285 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Early redemption of legacy securities
 
(237) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Operating expenses
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs
 
(50) 
(2) 
(7) 
(28) 
— 
Restructuring and other related costs3
 
(42) 
(4) 
— 
(4) 
— 
1 UK includes HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank), HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced bank), the ultimate holding company, HSBC Holdings plc, and the separately 
incorporated group of service companies (‘ServCo Group’).
2 Includes fair value movements on the foreign exchange hedging of the sale of our banking business in Canada which is booked in HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) 
Limited.
3 Amounts relate to restructuring provisions recognised in 2024 and reversals of restructuring provisions recognised during 2022.
 Legal entity reported and constant currency results (continued)
2023
HSBC UK 
Bank plc
HSBC 
Bank plc
The 
Hongkong 
and 
Shanghai 
Banking 
Corporation 
Limited
HSBC 
Bank 
Middle 
East 
Limited
HSBC 
North 
America 
Holdings 
Inc.
HSBC 
Bank 
Canada
Grupo
Financiero
HSBC, 
S.A.
de C.V.
Other 
trading 
entities1
Holding
companies,
shared
service
centres and
intra-Group
eliminations
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Revenue2
Reported
 
13,405 
9,289 
31,899 
2,425 
3,863 
1,966 
3,313 
4,729 
(4,831) 
66,058 
Currency translation
 
391 
150 
(93) 
1 
— 
(28) 
(103) 
(1,567) 
103 
(1,146) 
Constant currency
 
13,796 
9,439 
31,806 
2,426 
3,863 
1,938 
3,210 
3,162 
(4,728) 
64,912 
ECL
Reported
 
(523) 
(212) 
(1,641) 
(90) 
(94) 
(46) 
(696) 
(279) 
134 
(3,447) 
Currency translation
 
(11) 
(1) 
— 
— 
— 
1 
34 
166 
(1) 
188 
Constant currency
 
(534) 
(213) 
(1,641) 
(90) 
(94) 
(45) 
(662) 
(113) 
133 
(3,259) 
Operating expenses
Reported
 
(4,612) 
(6,386) 
(13,395) 
(1,096) 
(3,251) 
(1,049) 
(1,826) 
(2,635) 
2,180 
(32,070) 
Currency translation
 
(126) 
(99) 
31 
— 
— 
16 
55 
796 
(97) 
576 
Constant currency
 
(4,738) 
(6,485) 
(13,364) 
(1,096) 
(3,251) 
(1,033) 
(1,771) 
(1,839) 
2,083 
(31,494) 
Share of profit/(loss) in 
associates and joint ventures
Reported
 
— 
(52) 
(696) 
— 
— 
— 
14 
544 
(3) 
(193) 
Currency translation
 
— 
(1) 
(61) 
— 
— 
— 
(1) 
— 
— 
(63) 
Constant currency
 
— 
(53) 
(757) 
— 
— 
— 
13 
544 
(3) 
(256) 
Profit/(loss) before tax
Reported
 
8,270 
2,639 
16,167 
1,239 
518 
871 
805 
2,359 
(2,520) 
30,348 
Currency translation
 
254 
49 
(123) 
1 
— 
(11) 
(15) 
(605) 
5 
(445) 
Constant currency
 
8,524 
2,688 
16,044 
1,240 
518 
860 
790 
1,754 
(2,515) 
29,903 
Loans and advances to 
customers (net)
Reported 
 
270,208 
95,750 
455,315 
20,072 
54,829 
— 
26,410 
15,951 
— 
938,535 
Currency translation
 
(4,407) 
(4,136) 
(6,200) 
(4) 
— 
— 
(4,904) 
(1,794) 
(1) 
(21,446) 
Constant currency
 
265,801 
91,614 
449,115 
20,068 
54,829 
— 
21,506 
14,157 
(1) 
917,089 
Customer accounts
Reported 
 
339,611 
274,733 
801,430 
31,341 
99,607 
— 
29,423 
35,326 
176 1,611,647 
Currency translation
 
(5,539) 
(9,425) 
(7,068) 
(12) 
— 
— 
(5,464) 
(4,527) 
1 
(32,034) 
Constant currency
 
334,072 
265,308 
794,362 
31,329 
99,607 
— 
23,959 
30,799 
177 1,579,613 
1 Other trading entities includes the results of entities located in Oman, Türkiye, Egypt and Saudi Arabia (including our share of the results of Saudi Awwal Bank) 
which do not consolidate into HSBC Bank Middle East Limited. These entities had an aggregated impact on the Group’s reported profit before tax of $1,286m, 
and constant currency profit before tax of $1,090m. Supplementary analysis is provided on page 120 to provide a fuller picture of the MENAT regional 
performance.
2 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
Legal entities
114
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Legal entity results: notable items (continued)
2023
HSBC UK 
Bank plc
HSBC 
Bank plc
The 
Hongkong 
and
Shanghai
Banking
Corporation
Limited
HSBC 
Bank 
Middle 
East 
Limited
HSBC 
North 
America 
Holdings 
Inc.
HSBC 
Bank 
Canada
Grupo
Financiero
HSBC, S.A.
de C.V.
Other 
trading 
entities
Holding
companies,
shared
service
centres and
intra-Group
eliminations
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and 
related costs1,2,3
 
1,591 
(14) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(279) 
1,298 
Fair value movements on 
financial instruments4
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
14 
14 
Restructuring and other 
related costs
 
— 
361 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(361) 
— 
Disposal losses on Markets 
Treasury repositioning
 
(145) 
(94) 
(473) 
(20) 
(246) 
— 
— 
— 
1 
(977) 
Operating expenses
Disposals, acquisitions and 
related costs
 
(45) 
(111) 
— 
— 
(11) 
(115) 
— 
— 
(39) 
(321) 
Restructuring and other 
related costs5
 
20 
30 
10 
2 
10 
— 
6 
2 
56 
136 
Impairment of interest in 
associate6
 
— 
— 
(3,000) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(3,000) 
1 Includes the impacts of the sale of our retail banking operations in France. 
2 Includes the gain of $1.6bn recognised in respect of the acquisition of SVB UK.
3 Includes fair value movements on the foreign exchange hedging of the proceeds from the sale of our banking business in Canada.
4 Fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges in HSBC Holdings.
5 Balances relate to reversals of restructuring provisions recognised during 2022.
6 Includes an impairment loss of $3.0bn recognised in respect of the Group’s investment in BoCom.
Selected countries/territories results (continued)
2023
UK1
Hong
Kong
Mainland
China
US
Mexico
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Revenue2
Reported
 
19,092 
20,611 
3,923 
3,796 
3,313 
Currency translation
 
637 
67 
(64) 
— 
(103) 
Constant currency
 
19,729 
20,678 
3,859 
3,796 
3,210 
ECL
Reported 
 
(594) 
(1,529) 
(93) 
(94) 
(696) 
Currency translation
 
(14) 
(5) 
(2) 
— 
34 
Constant currency
 
(608) 
(1,534) 
(95) 
(94) 
(662) 
Operating expenses
Reported
 
(12,485) 
(8,244) 
(2,713) 
(3,251) 
(1,826) 
Currency translation
 
(328) 
(27) 
41 
— 
55 
Constant currency
 
(12,813) 
(8,271) 
(2,672) 
(3,251) 
(1,771) 
Share of profit/(loss) in associates and joint ventures
Reported 
 
(53) 
30 
(746) 
— 
14 
Currency translation
 
— 
— 
(61) 
— 
(1) 
Constant currency
 
(53) 
30 
(807) 
— 
13 
Profit before tax
Reported
 
5,960 
10,868 
371 
451 
805 
Currency translation
 
295 
35 
(86) 
— 
(15) 
Constant currency
 
6,255 
10,903 
285 
451 
790 
Loans and advances to customers (net)
Reported 
 
309,262 
279,551 
44,275 
54,829 
26,410 
Currency translation
 
(5,044) 
1,663 
(1,207) 
— 
(4,904) 
Constant currency
 
304,218 
281,214 
43,068 
54,829 
21,506 
Customer accounts
Reported 
 
508,181 
543,504 
56,006 
99,607 
29,423 
Currency translation
 
(8,289) 
3,233 
(1,525) 
— 
(5,464) 
Constant currency
 
499,892 
546,737 
54,481 
99,607 
23,959 
1 UK includes HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank), HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced bank), the ultimate holding company, HSBC Holdings plc, and the separately 
incorporated group of service companies (‘ServCo Group’).
2 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
115
Financial review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Selected countries/territories results: notable items (continued)
2023
UK1
Hong
Kong
Mainland
China
US
Mexico
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs2,3,4
 
1,272 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Fair value movements on financial instruments5
 
14 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Disposal losses on Markets Treasury repositioning
 
(239) 
(473) 
— 
(246) 
— 
Operating expenses
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs
 
(71) 
(1) 
(5) 
(11) 
— 
Restructuring and other related costs6
 
75 
9 
4 
10 
6 
Impairment of interest in associate7
 
— 
— 
(3,000) 
— 
— 
1 UK includes HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank), HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced bank), the ultimate holding company, HSBC Holdings plc, and the separately 
incorporated group of service companies (‘ServCo Group’).
2 Includes the gain of $1.6bn recognised in respect of the acquisition of SVB UK.
3 Includes the impairment gain relating to the sale of our retail banking operations in France.
4 Includes fair value movements on the foreign exchange hedging of the proceeds from the sale of our banking business in Canada.
5 Fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges in HSBC Holdings.
6 Balances relates to reversals of restructuring provisions recognised during 2022.
7 Includes an impairment loss of $3.0bn recognised in respect of the Group’s investment in BoCom.
Legal entity reported and constant currency results
2022
HSBC UK 
Bank plc
HSBC 
Bank plc
The 
Hongkong 
and 
Shanghai 
Banking 
Corporation 
Limited
HSBC 
Bank 
Middle 
East 
Limited
HSBC 
North 
America 
Holdings 
Inc.
HSBC 
Bank 
Canada
Grupo
Financiero
HSBC, 
S.A.
de C.V.
Other 
trading 
entities1
Holding
companies,
shared
service
centres and
intra-Group
eliminations
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Revenue2
Reported
 
9,771 
5,421 
25,642 
1,743 
4,163 
1,954 
2,713 
3,503 
(4,290) 
50,620 
Currency translation
 
399 
(30) 
(338) 
3 
— 
(96) 
265 
(1,235) 
(1) 
(1,033) 
Constant currency
 
10,170 
5,391 
25,304 
1,746 
4,163 
1,858 
2,978 
2,268 
(4,291) 
49,587 
ECL
Reported
 
(563) 
(292) 
(2,090) 
21 
(20) 
(84) 
(507) 
(61) 
12 
(3,584) 
Currency translation
 
(57) 
8 
2 
— 
— 
5 
(46) 
59 
(2) 
(31) 
Constant currency
 
(620) 
(284) 
(2,088) 
21 
(20) 
(79) 
(553) 
(2) 
10 
(3,615) 
Operating expenses
Reported
 
(4,721) 
(6,486) 
(13,053) 
(1,036) 
(3,438) 
(1,038) 
(1,636) 
(2,361) 
1,068 
(32,701) 
Currency translation
 
(178) 
(177) 
165 
(1) 
— 
51 
(163) 
792 
(17) 
472 
Constant currency
 
(4,899) 
(6,663) 
(12,888) 
(1,037) 
(3,438) 
(987) 
(1,799) 
(1,569) 
1,051 
(32,229) 
Share of profit/(loss) in 
associates and joint ventures
Reported
 
— 
(38) 
2,400 
— 
— 
— 
13 
351 
(3) 
2,723 
Currency translation
 
— 
— 
(164) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(164) 
Constant currency
 
— 
(38) 
2,236 
— 
— 
— 
13 
351 
(3) 
2,559 
Profit/(loss) before tax
Reported
 
4,487 
(1,395) 
12,899 
728 
705 
832 
583 
1,432 
(3,213) 
17,058 
Currency translation
 
164 
(199) 
(335) 
2 
— 
(40) 
56 
(384) 
(20) 
(756) 
Constant currency
 
4,651 
(1,594) 
12,564 
730 
705 
792 
639 
1,048 
(3,233) 
16,302 
Loans and advances to 
customers (net)
Reported 
 
245,921 
86,964 
473,985 
19,762 
54,159 
— 
20,446 
22,325 
(1) 
923,561 
Currency translation
 
10,166 
331 
(8,248) 
16 
— 
— 
(1,318) 
(3,210) 
1 
(2,262) 
Constant currency
 
256,087 
87,295 
465,737 
19,778 
54,159 
— 
19,128 
19,115 
— 
921,299 
Customer accounts
Reported 
 
336,086 
253,075 
784,236 
29,893 
100,404 
— 
25,531 
41,078 
— 1,570,303 
Currency translation
 
13,894 
3,640 
(9,033) 
24 
— 
— 
(1,645) 
(8,633) 
— 
(1,753) 
Constant currency
 
349,980 
256,715 
775,203 
29,917 
100,404 
— 
23,886 
32,445 
— 1,568,550 
1 Other trading entities includes the results of entities located in Oman, Türkiye, Egypt and Saudi Arabia (including our share of the results of Saudi Awwal Bank) 
which do not consolidate into HSBC Bank Middle East Limited. These entities had an aggregated impact on the Group’s reported profit before tax of $997m and 
constant currency profit before tax of $756m.
2 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
Legal entities
116
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Legal entity results: notable items (continued)
2022
HSBC UK 
Bank plc
HSBC 
Bank plc
The 
Hongkong 
and
Shanghai
Banking
Corporation
Limited
HSBC 
Bank 
Middle 
East 
Limited
HSBC 
North 
America 
Holdings 
Inc.
HSBC 
Bank 
Canada
Grupo
Financiero
HSBC, S.A.
de C.V.
Other 
trading 
entities
Holding
companies,
shared
service
centres and
intra-Group
eliminations
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and 
related costs1
 
— 
(2,242) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(495) 
(2,737) 
Fair value movements on 
financial instruments2
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(618) 
(618) 
Restructuring and other 
related costs3
 
1 
(278) 
46 
(13) 
98 
1 
(17) 
— 
(85) 
(247) 
Operating expenses
Disposals, acquisitions and 
related costs
 
— 
(18) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(18) 
Restructuring and other 
related costs
 
(521) 
(656) 
(741) 
(64) 
(421) 
(87) 
(115) 
(150) 
(127) 
(2,882) 
1 Includes losses from classifying businesses as held for sale as part of a broader restructuring of our European business, of which $2.3bn (inclusive of $0.4bn in 
goodwill impairments) relates to the sale of the retail banking operations in France. Held-for-sale classification for the sale of the retail banking operations in 
France was reversed in 1Q23 ($2.1bn loss reversed) and reinstated in 4Q23 ($2.0bn loss reinstated).
2 Fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges in HSBC Holdings.
3 Comprises gains and losses relating to the business update in February 2020, including losses associated with the RWA reduction programme.
Selected countries/territories results (continued)
2022
UK1
Hong
Kong
Mainland
China
US
Mexico
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Revenue2
Reported
 
17,268 
15,712 
4,104 
4,107 
2,713 
Currency translation
 
746 
60 
(272) 
— 
265 
Constant currency
 
18,014 
15,772 
3,832 
4,107 
2,978 
ECL
Reported 
 
(712) 
(1,683) 
(326) 
(20) 
(507) 
Currency translation
 
(54) 
(8) 
21 
— 
(46) 
Constant currency
 
(766) 
(1,691) 
(305) 
(20) 
(553) 
Operating expenses
Reported
 
(13,232) 
(7,935) 
(2,757) 
(3,438) 
(1,636) 
Currency translation
 
(504) 
(26) 
178 
— 
(163) 
Constant currency
 
(13,736) 
(7,961) 
(2,579) 
(3,438) 
(1,799) 
Share of profit/(loss) in associates and joint ventures
Reported 
 
(41) 
5 
2,386 
— 
12 
Currency translation
 
— 
— 
(163) 
— 
1 
Constant currency
 
(41) 
5 
2,223 
— 
13 
Profit before tax
Reported
 
3,283 
6,099 
3,407 
649 
582 
Currency translation
 
188 
26 
(236) 
— 
57 
Constant currency
 
3,471 
6,125 
3,171 
649 
639 
Loans and advances to customers (net)
Reported 
 
286,032 
294,580 
50,481 
54,159 
20,446 
Currency translation
 
11,825 
1,122 
(2,811) 
— 
(1,318) 
Constant currency
 
297,857 
295,702 
47,670 
54,159 
19,128 
Customer accounts
Reported 
 
493,028 
542,543 
56,948 
100,404 
25,531 
Currency translation
 
20,382 
2,068 
(3,169) 
— 
(1,645) 
Constant currency
 
513,410 
544,611 
53,779 
100,404 
23,886 
1 UK includes HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank), HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced bank), the ultimate holding company, HSBC Holdings plc, and the separately 
incorporated group of service companies (‘ServCo Group’).
2 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
117
Financial review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Selected countries/territories results: notable items (continued)
2022
UK1
Hong
Kong
Mainland
China
US
Mexico
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs
 
(60) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Fair value movements on financial instruments2
 
(617) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Restructuring and other related costs3
 
407 
(124) 
71 
99 
(17) 
Operating expenses
Restructuring and other related costs
 
(1,741) 
(393) 
(70) 
(424) 
(115) 
1 UK includes HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank), HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced bank), the ultimate holding company, HSBC Holdings plc, and the separately 
incorporated group of service companies (‘ServCo Group’).
2 Fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges in HSBC Holdings.
3 Comprises gains and losses relating to the business update in February 2022, including losses associated with RWA reduction commitments.
Analysis by country/territory
Profit/(loss) before tax by country/territory within global businesses
2024
Wealth and
Personal
Banking
Commercial 
Banking
Global 
Banking and 
Markets
Corporate
Centre
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
UK1
 
2,487 
3,446 
12 
845 
6,790 
– of which: HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank)
 
2,628 
4,367 
146 
72 
7,213 
– of which: HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced bank)
 
534 
97 
657 
(359) 
929 
– of which: Holdings and other
 
(675) 
(1,018) 
(791) 
1,132 
(1,352) 
France
 
60 
196 
127 
(153) 
230 
Germany
 
27 
45 
137 
5 
214 
Hong Kong
 
7,453 
3,212 
1,704 
(482) 
11,887 
Australia
 
141 
378 
99 
(9) 
609 
India
 
96 
448 
875 
269 
1,688 
Indonesia
 
7 
156 
63 
(5) 
221 
Mainland China2
 
(167) 
235 
678 
2,481 
3,227 
Malaysia
 
143 
155 
219 
(3) 
514 
Singapore
 
572 
376 
448 
(21) 
1,375 
Taiwan
 
113 
70 
223 
(8) 
398 
Egypt
 
123 
145 
355 
(16) 
607 
UAE
 
371 
228 
355 
(83) 
871 
Saudi Arabia3
 
— 
— 
112 
596 
708 
US
 
74 
578 
331 
(198) 
785 
Canada4
 
71 
126 
26 
4,503 
4,726 
Mexico
 
185 
529 
13 
3 
730 
Other5
 
426 
1,537 
1,286 
(6,520) 
(3,271) 
Year ended 31 Dec 2024
 
12,182 
11,860 
7,063 
1,204 
32,309 
1 UK includes results from the ultimate holding company, HSBC Holdings plc, and the separately incorporated group of service companies (‘ServCo Group’).
2 Includes our share of the profits of our associate, Bank of Communications Co., Limited.
3 Includes the results of HSBC Saudi Arabia and our share of the profits of our associate, Saudi Awwal Bank.
4 Corporate Centre includes a gain of $4.5bn on the sale of our banking business in Canada excluding the fair value movements on the foreign exchange hedging 
of the sale which is booked in HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited.
5 Corporate Centre includes the profit and loss impact of inter-company debt eliminations of $(269)m and a loss of $6.2bn relating to the sale of our business in 
Argentina.
Legal entities
118
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Profit/(loss) before tax by country/territory within global businesses (continued)
2023
Wealth and
Personal
Banking
Commercial
 Banking
Global
Banking
and Markets
Corporate
Centre
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
UK1
 
2,415 
4,437 
(692) 
(200) 
5,960 
– of which: HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank)
 
2,754 
5,282 
144 
90 
8,270 
– of which: HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced bank)
 
396 
295 
121 
177 
989 
– of which: Holdings and other
 
(735) 
(1,140) 
(957) 
(467) 
(3,299) 
France
 
(35) 
235 
128 
10 
338 
Germany
 
44 
144 
128 
4 
320 
Hong Kong
 
6,808 
2,970 
1,394 
(304) 
10,868 
Australia
 
177 
319 
85 
(15) 
566 
India
 
56 
398 
774 
289 
1,517 
Indonesia
 
23 
124 
68 
(7) 
208 
Mainland China2
 
(90) 
339 
662 
(540) 
371 
Malaysia
 
111 
158 
219 
(21) 
467 
Singapore
 
233 
436 
444 
(31) 
1,082 
Taiwan
 
99 
72 
198 
(7) 
362 
Egypt
 
141 
98 
303 
(11) 
531 
UAE
 
387 
212 
377 
(83) 
893 
Saudi Arabia3
 
— 
— 
118 
539 
657 
US
 
225 
513 
111 
(398) 
451 
Canada
 
293 
561 
120 
(96) 
878 
Mexico
 
317 
504 
15 
(31) 
805 
Other4
 
340 
1,760 
1,472 
502 
4,074 
Year ended 31 Dec 2023
 
11,544 
13,280 
5,924 
(400) 
30,348 
1 UK includes results from the ultimate holding company, HSBC Holdings plc, and the separately incorporated group of service companies (‘ServCo Group’).
2 Includes our share of the profits of our associate, Bank of Communications Co., Limited.
3 Includes the results of HSBC Saudi Arabia and our share of the profits of our associate, Saudi Awwal Bank.
4 Corporate Centre includes the profit and loss impact of inter-company debt eliminations of $571m.
2022
Wealth and 
Personal 
Banking
Commercial
 Banking
Global
Banking
and Markets
Corporate
Centre
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
UK1
 
1,764 
2,094 
(534) 
(41) 
3,283 
– of which: HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank)
 
2,112 
2,662 
143 
(430) 
4,487 
– of which: HSBC Bank plc (non-ring fenced bank)
 
294 
315 
141 
(473) 
277 
– of which: Holdings and other
 
(642) 
(883) 
(818) 
862 
(1,481) 
France2
 
(2,248) 
210 
81 
(231) 
(2,188) 
Germany
 
17 
8 
133 
(147) 
11 
Hong Kong
 
4,435 
1,278 
955 
(568) 
6,100 
Australia
 
147 
180 
157 
(36) 
448 
India
 
45 
304 
622 
306 
1,277 
Indonesia
 
4 
71 
100 
(8) 
167 
Mainland China3
 
(100) 
303 
526 
2,678 
3,407 
Malaysia
 
110 
89 
219 
(36) 
382 
Singapore
 
218 
255 
351 
(77) 
747 
Taiwan
 
36 
43 
137 
(17) 
199 
Egypt
 
101 
76 
194 
(4) 
367 
UAE
 
128 
107 
320 
(86) 
469 
Saudi Arabia4
 
30 
— 
94 
345 
469 
US
 
209 
557 
270 
(387) 
649 
Canada
 
243 
548 
140 
(89) 
842 
Mexico
 
241 
414 
39 
(112) 
582 
Other5
 
208 
1,056 
1,115 
(2,532) 
(153) 
Year ended 31 Dec 2022
 
5,588 
7,593 
4,919 
(1,042) 
17,058 
1 UK includes results from the ultimate holding company, HSBC Holdings plc, and the separately incorporated group of service companies (‘ServCo Group’).
2 Includes the impact of goodwill impairment of $425m as a result of the reclassification of our retail banking operations in France to held for sale. At 31 December 
2022, HSBC’s cash-generating units were based on geographical regions, sub-divided by global businesses.
3 Includes our share of the profits of our associate, Bank of Communications Co., Limited.
4 Includes the results of HSBC Saudi Arabia and our share of the profits of our associate, Saudi Awwal Bank. 
5 Corporate Centre includes the profit and loss impact of inter-company debt eliminations of $1,850m.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
119
Financial review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Middle East, North Africa and Türkiye supplementary information
The following tables show the results of our Middle East, North Africa and Türkiye business operations on a regional basis (including results of 
all the legal entities operating in the region and our share of the results of Saudi Awwal Bank). They also show the profit before tax of each of 
the global businesses.
Middle East, North Africa and Türkiye regional performance
2024
2023
$m
$m
Revenue1
 
3,852 
3,688 
Change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges
 
(222) 
(133) 
Operating expenses
 
(1,695) 
(1,592) 
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures
 
596 
538 
Profit before tax
 
2,531 
2,501 
Loans and advances to customers (net)
 
22,975 
22,766 
Customer accounts
 
42,434 
40,708 
1 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
Profit before tax by global business
2024
2023
$m
$m
Wealth and Personal Banking
 
585 
612 
Commercial Banking
 
368 
400 
Global Banking and Markets
 
1,091 
1,104 
Corporate Centre
 
487 
385 
Total
 
2,531 
2,501 
Reconciliation of alternative 
performance measures
 
Contents
120
Use of alternative performance measures
121
Alternative performance measure definitions
122
Constant currency revenue and profit before tax excluding notable 
items and strategic transactions
122
Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity and return on average 
tangible equity
123
Net asset value and tangible net asset value per ordinary share
123
Post-tax return and average total shareholders’ equity on average total 
assets
124
Expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges as % of 
average gross loans and advances to customers
124
Target basis operating expenses
125
Basic earnings per share excluding material notable items and related 
impacts
125
Multi-jurisdictional client revenue
 
Use of alternative performance 
measures
Our reported results are prepared in accordance with IFRS Accounting 
Standards as detailed in our financial statements starting on page 341.
As described on page 86, we use a combination of reported and 
alternative performance measures, including those derived from our 
reported results that eliminate factors that distort year-on-year 
comparisons. These are considered alternative performance 
measures (non-GAAP financial measures). 
The following information details the adjustments made to the 
reported results and the calculation of other alternative performance 
measures. All alternative performance measures are reconciled to the 
closest reported performance measure.
On 1 January 2023, HSBC adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’. As 
required by the standard, the Group applied the requirements 
retrospectively with comparative data previously published under 
IFRS 4 ‘Insurance Contracts’ restated from the 1 January 2022 
transition date.
In addition to the alternative performance measures set out in this 
section, another alternative performance measure in relation to the 
Group’s insurance manufacturing operations is set out on pages 105 
to 107.
Reconciliation of alternative performance measures
120
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Alternative performance measure definitions
Alternative performance measure
Definition
Reported revenue excluding notable items
Reported revenue after excluding notable items reported under revenue
Reported profit before tax excluding notable items
Reported profit before tax after excluding notable items reported under revenue 
less notable items reported under operating expenses
Constant currency revenue excluding notable items1
Reported revenue excluding notable items and the impact of foreign exchange 
translation2
Constant currency profit before tax excluding notable 
items1
Reported profit before tax excluding notable items and the impact of foreign 
exchange translation2
Constant currency revenue excluding notable items 
and strategic transactions1
Reported revenue excluding notable items, strategic transactions and the impact 
of foreign exchange translation3
Constant currency profit before tax excluding notable 
items and strategic transactions1
Reported profit before tax excluding notable items, strategic transactions and the 
impact of foreign exchange translation3
Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity (‘RoE’)
Profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders 
Average ordinary shareholders’ equity
Return on average tangible equity (‘RoTE‘)
Profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders, excluding impairment 
of goodwill and other intangible assets
Average ordinary shareholders’ equity adjusted for goodwill and intangibles
Return on average tangible equity (‘RoTE‘) excluding 
notable items
Profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders, excluding impairment of goodwill 
and other intangible assets and notable items2
Average ordinary shareholders’ equity adjusted for goodwill 
and intangibles and notable items2
Net asset value per ordinary share
Total ordinary shareholders’ equity4
Basic number of ordinary shares in issue after deducting own shares held
Tangible net asset value per ordinary share
Tangible ordinary shareholders’ equity5
Basic number of ordinary shares in issue after deducting own shares held
Post-tax return on average total assets
Profit after tax
 Average total assets 
Average total shareholders’ equity on average total 
assets
Average total shareholders’ equity
Average total assets
Expected credit losses and other credit impairment 
charges (‘ECL’) as % of average gross loans and 
advances to customers
Annualised constant currency ECL6
Constant currency average gross loans and advances to customers6
Expected credit losses and other credit impairment 
charges (‘ECL’) as % of average gross loans and 
advances to customers, including held for sale
Annualised constant currency ECL6
Constant currency average gross loans and advances to customers, 
including held for sale6
Target basis operating expenses
Reported operating expenses excluding notable items, foreign exchange 
translation and other excluded items7
Basic earnings per share excluding material notable 
items and related impacts
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders excluding material notable 
items and related impacts8
Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding after deducting own 
shares held
Multi-jurisdictional client revenue
Total client revenue we generate from clients that hold a relationship with 
us that generates revenue in more than one market
1 Constant currency performance is computed by adjusting reported results for the effects of foreign currency translation differences, which distort period-onperiod comparisons.
2 For details of notable items, see ‘Supplementary financial information‘ on page 99.
3 For details of strategic transactions, see ‘Strategic transactions supplementary analysis‘ on page 102.
4 Total ordinary shareholders’ equity is total shareholders‘ equity less non-cumulative preference shares and capital securities.
5 Tangible ordinary shareholders’ equity is total ordinary shareholders’ equity excluding goodwill and other intangible assets (net of deferred tax).
6 The constant currency numbers are derived by adjusting reported ECL and average loans and advances to customers for the effects of foreign currency 
translation differences.
7 Other excluded items includes the impact of re-translating comparative period financial information at the latest rates of foreign exchange in hyperinflationary 
economies, which we consider to be outside of our control, and the impact of the sale of our retail banking operations in France and banking business in Canada.
8 For details of material notable items and related impacts, that are included in the calculation of Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders excluding material 
notable items and related impacts, see page 125.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
121
Financial review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Constant currency revenue and profit before tax excluding notable items and strategic transactions
Year ended
2024
2023
2022
$m
$m
$m
Revenue 
Reported
 
65,854 
66,058 
50,620 
Notable items
 
1,580 
(335) 
3,602 
Reported revenue excluding notable items
 
67,434 
65,723 
54,222 
Currency translation1
 
 
(1,234) 
(839) 
Constant currency revenue excluding notable items
 
67,434 
64,489 
53,383 
Constant currency impact of strategic transactions (distorting impact of operating results between periods)2
 
(178) 
(1,446) 
N/A
Constant currency revenue excluding notable items and strategic transactions
 
67,256 
63,043 
N/A
Profit before tax
Reported
 
32,309 
30,348 
17,058 
Notable items
 
1,813 
2,850 
6,502 
Reported profit before tax excluding notable items
 
34,122 
33,198 
23,560 
Currency translation1
 
 
(518) 
(503) 
Constant currency profit before tax excluding notable items
 
34,122 
32,680 
23,057 
Constant currency impact of strategic transactions (distorting impact of operating results between periods)2
 
(85) 
(463) 
N/A
Constant currency profit before tax excluding notable items and strategic transactions
 
34,037 
32,217 
N/A
1 Currency translation on the reported balance excluding currency translation on notable items.
2 For more details of strategic transactions, please refer to page 102.
Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity, return on average tangible equity and return on average tangible equity excluding notable 
items
2024
2023
2022
$m
$m
$m
Profit after tax
Profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the parent company
 
22,917 
22,432 
14,346 
Impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets (net of tax)
 
118 
43 
535 
Profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders, excluding goodwill and other
intangible assets impairment
 
23,035 
22,475 
14,881 
Impact of notable items1
 
1,588 
2,173 
2,750 
Profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders, excluding goodwill, other intangible assets impairment 
and notable items
 
24,623 
24,648 
17,631 
Equity
Average total shareholders’ equity
 
187,507 
184,029 
180,263 
Effect of average preference shares and other equity instruments
 
(18,480) 
(18,794) 
(21,202) 
Average ordinary shareholders’ equity
 
169,027 
165,235 
159,061 
Effect of goodwill and other intangibles (net of deferred tax)
 
(11,626) 
(11,480) 
(10,786) 
Average tangible equity
 
157,401 
153,755 
148,275 
Average impact of notable items
 
(3,322) 
(1,162) 
1,565 
Average tangible equity excluding notable items
 
154,079 
152,593 
149,840 
%
%
%
Ratio
Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity
 
13.6 
 
13.6 
 
9.0 
Return on average tangible equity
 
14.6 
 
14.6 
 
10.0 
Return on average tangible equity excluding notable items
 
16.0 
 
16.2 
 
11.8 
1 For details of notable items please refer to Supplementary financial information on page 99.
From 1 January 2024, we have revised the adjustments made to 
return on average tangible equity (‘RoTE’). Prior to this, we adjusted 
RoTE for the impact of strategic transactions and the impairment of 
our investment in Bank of Communications Co., Limited (‘BoCom’), 
whereas from 1 January 2024 we have excluded all notable items. 
This was intended to improve alignment with the treatment of notable 
items in our other income statement disclosures. Comparatives have 
been re-presented on the revised basis and we no longer disclose 
RoTE excluding strategic transactions and the impairment of BoCom. 
We will now target a RoTE in the mid-teens in each of the three years 
from 2025 to 2027 excluding the impact of notable items. 
Reconciliation of alternative performance measures
122
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The following table details the adjustments made to reported results by global business:
Return on average tangible equity by global business
Year ended 31 Dec 2024
Wealth and
Personal
Banking
Commercial
Banking
Global
Banking and
Markets
Corporate
Centre
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Profit before tax
 
12,182 
11,860 
7,063 
1,204 
32,309 
Tax expense
 
(2,173) 
(2,834) 
(1,573) 
(730) 
(7,310) 
Profit after tax
 
10,009 
9,026 
5,490 
474 
24,999 
Less attributable to: preference shareholders, other equity holders, non-controlling 
interests
 
(824) 
(471) 
(520) 
(267) 
(2,082) 
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company
 
9,185 
8,555 
4,970 
207 
22,917 
Other adjustments
 
(110) 
314 
(202) 
116 
118 
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders
 
9,075 
8,869 
4,768 
323 
23,035 
Average tangible shareholders’ equity
 
31,267 
44,357 
36,622 
45,155 
157,401 
Return on average tangible equity (%)
 
29.0 
 
20.0 
 
13.0 
 
0.7 
 
14.6 
Year ended 31 Dec 2023
Profit before tax
 
11,544 
13,280 
5,924 
(400) 
30,348 
Tax expense
 
(2,141) 
(2,945) 
(1,165) 
462 
(5,789) 
Profit after tax
 
9,403 
10,335 
4,759 
62 
24,559 
Less attributable to: preference shareholders, other equity holders, non-controlling 
interests
 
(828) 
(485) 
(588) 
(226) 
(2,127) 
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company
 
8,575 
9,850 
4,171 
(164) 
22,432 
Other adjustments
 
(221) 
364 
168 
(268) 
43 
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders
 
8,354 
10,214 
4,339 
(432) 
22,475 
Average tangible shareholders’ equity 
 
29,352 
43,687 
38,036 
42,680 
153,755 
Return on average tangible equity (%)
 
28.5 
 
23.4 
 
11.4 
 
(1.0) 
 
14.6 
Net asset value and tangible net asset value per ordinary share
2024
2023
2022
$m
$m
$m
Total shareholders’ equity
 
184,973 
185,329 
177,833 
Preference shares and other equity instruments 
 
(19,070) 
(17,719) 
(19,746) 
Total ordinary shareholders’ equity
 
165,903 
167,610 
158,087 
Goodwill, PVIF and intangible assets (net of deferred tax)
 
(11,608) 
(11,900) 
(11,160) 
Tangible ordinary shareholders’ equity
 
154,295 
155,710 
146,927 
Basic number of $0.50 ordinary shares outstanding after deducting own shares held
 
17,918 
19,006 
19,739 
Value per share
$
$
$
Net asset value per ordinary share
 
9.26 
8.82 
8.01 
Tangible net asset value per ordinary share
 
8.61 
8.19 
7.44 
Post-tax return and average total shareholders’ equity on average total assets
2024
2023
 2022
$m
$m
$m
Profit after tax
 
24,999 
24,559 
16,249 
Average total shareholders’ equity
 
187,507 
184,029 
180,263 
Average total assets
 
3,062,474 
3,059,887 
3,017,495 
Ratio
%
%
%
Post-tax return on average total assets
 
0.8 
 
0.8 
 
0.5 
Average total shareholders’ equity to average total assets
 
6.12 
 
6.01 
 
5.97 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
123
Financial review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges as % of average gross loans and advances to customers and expected credit
losses and other credit impairment charges as % of average gross loans and advances to customers, including held for sale
2024
2023
2022
$m
$m
$m
Expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges (‘ECL’)
 
(3,414) 
(3,447) 
(3,584) 
Currency translation
 
— 
188 
(31) 
Constant currency
 
(3,414) 
(3,259) 
(3,615) 
Average gross loans and advances to customers
 
952,484 
955,585 
1,014,148 
Currency translation
 
(16,140) 
(10,586) 
(17,751) 
Constant currency
 
936,344 
944,999 
996,397 
Average gross loans and advances to customers, including held for sale
 
968,785 
1,020,992 
1,035,678 
Currency translation
 
(17,394) 
(14,752) 
(18,233) 
Constant currency
 
951,391 
1,006,240 
1,017,445 
Ratio
%
%
%
Expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges as % of average gross loans and advances to 
customers
 
0.36 
 
0.34 
 
0.36 
Expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges as % of average gross loans and advances to 
customers, including held for sale
 
0.36 
 
0.32 
 
0.36 
Target basis operating expenses 
Target basis operating expenses for 2024 was computed by excluding 
the direct cost impact of our retail banking operations in France and 
Canada banking business disposals from the 2023 baseline. It is 
measured on a constant currency basis and excludes notable items 
and the impact of retranslating the prior year results of 
hyperinflationary economies at constant currency, which we consider 
to be outside of our control. We consider target basis operating 
expenses to provide useful information to investors by quantifying 
and excluding the notable items that management considered when 
setting and assessing cost-related targets. In 2024, we targeted 
operating expenses growth of approximately 5% compared with 
2023. This target reflected our business plan for 2024, which included 
an increase in staff compensation, higher spend and investment in 
technology for growth and efficiency, in part mitigated by cost savings 
from actions taken during 2023. We are targeting growth in target 
basis operating expenses of approximately 3% in 2025 compared 
with 2024.
Our target basis operating expenses for 2025 excludes the direct cost 
impact of the business disposals in Canada and Argentina, notable 
items and the impact of retranslating the prior year results of 
hyperinflationary economies at constant currency.
Our cost target includes the impact of simplification-related saves 
associated with our announced reorganisation, see page 103, which 
aims to generate approximately $0.3bn of cost reductions in 2025, 
with a commitment to an annualised reduction of $1.5bn in our cost 
base expected by the end of 2026. To deliver these reductions, we 
plan to incur severance and other up-front costs of $1.8bn over 2025 
and 2026, which will be classified as notable items.
We do not reconcile our forward target basis operating expenses 
guidance to the reported operating expenses.
Target basis operating expenses
2024
2023
$m
$m
Reported operating expenses
 
33,043 
32,070 
Notable items
 
(233) 
(185) 
– disposals, acquisitions and related costs
 
(199) 
(321) 
– restructuring and other related costs1
 
(34) 
136 
Currency translation2
 
(577) 
Excluding the constant currency impact of the sale of our retail banking operations 
in France and banking business in Canada3
 
(162) 
(976) 
Excluding the impact of retranslating prior year costs of hyperinflationary economies at a constant currency foreign exchange rate
 
742 
Target basis operating expenses
 
32,648 
31,074 
1 Amounts relate to restructuring provisions recognised in 2024 and reversals of restructuring provisions recognised during 2022.
2 Currency translation on reported operating expenses, excluding currency translation on notable items.
3 This represents the business as usual costs which are not classified as notable items relating to our retail banking operations in France and banking business in 
Canada, on a constant currency basis. This does not include the disposal costs which relate to these transactions.
Reconciliation of alternative performance measures
124
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Basic earnings per share excluding material notable items and related impacts
Basic earnings per share excluding material notable items and related impacts
2024
2023
$m
$m
Profit attributable to shareholders of company
 
23,979 
23,533 
Coupon payable on capital securities classified as equity
 (1,062) (1,101)
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of company
 22,917 22,432
Impairment of interest in associate1
 
— 3,000
Gain on acquisition of SVB UK
 
(5) (1,549)
Impact of the sale of our retail banking operations in France
 
(56) 108
Impact of the sale of our banking business in Canada2
 
(4,963) (311)
Impact of the sale of our business in Argentina
 
6,161 —
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of company excluding material notable items and related impacts
 24,054 23,680
Number of shares
Weighted average basic number of ordinary shares (millions) after deducting own shares held
 
18,357 
19,478 
Basic earnings per share ($)
 
1.25 
1.15 
Basic earnings per share excluding material notable items and related impacts ($)
 
1.31 
1.22 
Dividend per ordinary share (in respect of the period) ($)3
 
0.87 
0.61 
Dividend payout ratio (%) (dividend per ordinary share divided by basic earnings per share excluding material notable items and 
related impacts)
 50% 50% 
1 Represents an impairment loss of $3bn recognised in respect of the Group’s investment in BoCom in 2023. See Note 18 on page 402.
2 Represents gain on sale of business in Canada recognised on completion, inclusive of the earnings recognised by the banking business from 30 June 2022, the 
recycling of losses in foreign currency translation reserves and other reserves, and gain on the foreign exchange hedging of the sale proceeds.
3 In 2024, dividend per share includes the special dividend of $0.21 per ordinary share arising from the proceeds of the sale of our banking business in Canada to 
Royal Bank of Canada.
Material notable items are a subset of notable items. Material notable 
items are components of our income statement that management 
would consider as outside the normal course of business and 
generally non-recurring in nature, which are excluded from our 
dividend payout ratio calculation and our earnings per share measure, 
along with related impacts. Categorisation as a material notable item 
is dependent on the nature of each item in conjunction with the 
financial impact on the Group’s income statement. 
Related impacts include those items that do not qualify for 
designation as notable items but whose adjustment is considered by 
management to be appropriate for the purposes of determining the 
basis for our dividend payout ratio calculation. 
Material notable items in 2024 and comparative periods included the 
sale of our business in Argentina, the sale of our retail banking 
operations in France, the sale of our banking business in Canada, the 
gain following the acquisition of SVB UK and the impairment of our 
investment in BoCom. In determining this measure, we also excluded 
HSBC Bank Canada‘s financial results from the 30 June 2022 net 
asset reference date until completion of the sale, as the gain on sale 
was recognised through a combination of the consolidation of HSBC 
Bank Canada‘s results in the Group‘s results since this date, and the 
remaining gain on sale recognised at completion. For the sale of our 
business in Argentina, between signing and closing, the loss on sale 
varied by changes in the net asset value of the disposed business and 
associated hyperinflation and foreign currency translation, and in the 
fair value of consideration including price adjustments and migration 
costs. There were no additional related impacts identified, and the 
ongoing profits from HSBC Argentina were not excluded from our 
basic earnings per share excluding material notable items and related 
impacts.
Multi-jurisdictional client revenue
Multi-jurisdictional client revenue is a financial metric we use to 
assess our ability to drive value from our international network.
In our wholesale businesses, we identify a client as multi-jurisdictional 
if they hold a relationship with us that generates revenue in any 
market outside of where the primary relationship is managed. A client 
is defined as a mastergroup (HSBC’s own client groupings) that 
includes both the parent and, where relevant, any subsidiaries.
Multi-jurisdictional client revenue is a component of wholesale client 
revenue and represents the total client revenue we generate from 
multi-jurisdictional clients. Wholesale client revenue is derived by 
excluding from CMB and GBM reported revenue the revenue we 
generate from client facilitation in Fixed Income and Equities, as well 
as other non-client revenue. In 2023, we also excluded the gain on 
the acquisition of SVB UK.
Wholesale multi-jurisdictional client revenue
2024
2023
$bn
$bn
CMB and GBM revenue
 
39.1 
39.0 
Allocated revenue and other1
 
(1.3) 
0.9 
Client facilitation in Fixed Income and Equities
 
(5.6) 
(4.8) 
Gain on acquisition of SVB UK
 
— 
(1.6) 
Wholesale client revenue
 
32.3 
33.5 
– clients banked in multiple jurisdictions (‘multi-jurisdictional’)
 
20.0 
20.4 
– domestic only clients
 
12.3 
13.1 
1 Including allocations of Market Treasury revenue, HSBC Holdings interest expense and hyperinflationary accounting adjustments, and interest earned on capital 
held in the global businesses.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
125
Financial review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

126
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Risk
review
Our risk review outlines our approach to risk 
management, how we identify and monitor top 
and emerging risks, and the actions we take to 
mitigate them. In addition, it explains our 
material banking risks, including how we 
manage capital.
127 
Our approach to risk
131 
Top and emerging risks
137 
Our material banking risks
139 
Credit risk
200 
Treasury risk
216 
Market risk
219 
Climate risk
228 
Resilience risk
229 
Regulatory compliance risk
229 
Financial crime risk
230 
Model risk
231 
Insurance manufacturing operations risk
Bangkok, Thailand, 1990s. Customer Service Desk.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Our approach to risk
Our risk appetite
Our risk appetite defines the level and types of risk that we are willing 
to take, while informing the financial planning process and guiding 
strategic decision making. Our risk appetite is defined as the 
aggregate level of risk that we are comfortable to take to achieve our 
strategic objectives. Risk appetite also provides a mechanism for nonexecutive directors and executive directors to collectively establish 
the Group’s willingness to engage in certain activities and assess 
these activities.
Enterprise-wide application
Our risk appetite is expressed holistically through various risk 
management mechanisms and activities, in both quantitative and 
qualitative terms. The Group Risk and Compliance function carried out 
a review in 2024, which led to enhancements to our Global Risk 
Appetite Framework to help ensure it remains aligned to industry best 
practices, regulatory expectations and our strategic goals. Our Global 
Risk Appetite Framework continues to evolve and expand its scope as 
part of our periodic review process.
The Board reviews and approves the Group’s risk appetite regularly to 
make sure it remains fit for purpose. The Group’s risk appetite is 
considered, developed, and enhanced through the following 
principles: 
–
alignment with our strategy, purpose, values, external risk 
environment, reputational and customer needs; 
–
compliance with applicable laws, regulations and regulatory 
priorities;
–
forward-looking insights into future risk exposure;
–
sufficiency of available capital, liquidity and balance sheet leverage 
to absorb the risks;
–
capacity and capabilities of people to manage the risk landscape;
–
functionality, capacity and resilience of available systems to 
manage the risk landscape;
–
effectiveness of the applicable control environment to mitigate 
risk; and
–
internally and externally disclosed commitments.
We formally articulate our risk appetite through our Risk Appetite 
Statement (‘RAS’). Setting out our risk appetite helps ensure that we 
agree a suitable level of risk for our strategy. In this way, risk appetite 
informs our financial planning process and helps senior management 
to allocate capital to business activities, services and products.
At a Group level, performance against the RAS is reported to the 
Group Risk Management Meeting alongside key risk indicators to 
support targeted insight and discussion of breaches of risk appetite 
and any associated mitigating actions. This reporting allows risks to 
be promptly identified and mitigated, and informs risk-adjusted 
remuneration to drive a strong risk culture.
Coverage of each principal subsidiary and material operating entity is 
monitored through a RAS, which helps ensure they remain aligned 
with the Group’s RAS. Each RAS and business activity is guided and 
underpinned by qualitative principles and/or quantitative metrics.
Risk management
We recognise that the primary role of risk management is to help 
protect our customers, business, colleagues, shareholders and the 
communities that we serve, while ensuring we are able to support 
our strategy and provide sustainable growth. This is supported 
through our three lines of defence model described on page 128.
In addition, we recognise the importance of a strong culture, which 
refers to our shared attitudes, beliefs, values and standards that 
shape behaviours including those related to risk awareness, risk 
taking and risk management. All our people are responsible for the 
management of risk, with ultimate supervisory oversight residing with 
the Board. 
The implementation of our business strategy remains a key focus. As 
we implement change initiatives, we actively manage the execution 
risks. We also perform periodic risk assessments, including against 
strategies, to help ensure retention of key personnel for our continued 
safe operation.
We aim to use a comprehensive risk management approach across 
the organisation and across all risk types, underpinned by our culture 
and values. This is outlined in our risk management framework, 
including the key principles and practices that we employ in managing 
material risks, both financial and non-financial. The framework fosters 
continuous monitoring and promotes risk awareness and a positive 
risk culture. It encourages a sound operational and strategic decisionmaking and escalation process. It also supports a consistent approach 
to identifying, assessing, managing and reporting the risks we accept 
and incur in our activities, with clear accountabilities. We actively 
review and enhance our risk management framework and our 
approach to managing risk.
Group Risk and Compliance is independent from the global 
businesses, including our sales and trading functions. It provides 
challenge, oversight and appropriate balance in risk/return decisions. 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
127
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Our risk management framework
The following diagram and descriptions summarise key aspects of the risk management framework, including governance, structure, risk 
management tools and our culture, which together help align employee behaviour with risk appetite.
Key components of our risk management framework
HSBC values and risk culture
Risk governance
Non-executive risk governance
The Board approves the Group’s risk appetite, plans and performance 
targets. It sets the ‘tone from the top’ and is advised by the Group Risk 
Committee (see page 251).
Executive risk governance
Our executive risk governance structure is responsible for the enterprisewide management of all risks, including key policies and frameworks for the 
management of risk within the Group (see pages 128 and 137). 
Roles and 
responsibilities
Three lines of defence model
Our ‘three lines of defence’ model defines roles and responsibilities for risk 
management. An independent Group Risk and Compliance function helps 
ensure the necessary balance in risk/return decisions (see page 128).
Processes and tools
Risk appetite
The Group has processes in place to identify, assess, monitor, manage and 
report risks to help ensure we remain within our risk appetite and to 
anticipate, prevent, respond to, and recover from, significant operational 
disruptions.
Enterprise-wide risk management tools
Active risk management: identification/assessment, 
monitoring, management and reporting 
Operational resilience
Internal controls
Policies and procedures
Policies and procedures define the minimum requirements for the controls 
required to manage our risks. 
Control activities
Operational and resilience risk management defines minimum standards 
and processes for managing operational risks and internal controls.
Systems and infrastructure
The Group has systems and processes that support the identification, 
capture and exchange of information to support risk management activities.
Risk governance 
The Board has ultimate supervisory responsibility for the effective 
management of risk and approves our risk appetite. 
The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, supported by members 
of the Group Risk Management Meeting, holds executive 
accountability for the ongoing monitoring, assessment and 
management of the risk environment and the effectiveness of the risk 
management framework.
The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer is also responsible for 
the oversight of reputational risk, with the support of the Group 
Reputational Risk Committee. The Group Reputational Risk 
Committee considers matters arising from customers, transactions 
and third parties that either present a serious potential reputational 
risk to the Group or merit a Group-led decision to help enable a 
consistent risk management approach across the regions, global 
businesses and global functions. Further details can be found under 
the ‘Reputational risk’ section of www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esgand-responsible-business/managing-risk. 
Day-to-day responsibility for risk management is delegated to senior 
managers with individual accountability for decision making. All our 
people have a role to play in risk management. These roles are 
defined using the three lines of defence model, which takes into 
account our business and functional structures, including regulatory 
compliance and financial crime, as described in the following 
commentary, ‘Our responsibilities’.
We use a defined executive risk governance structure to help enable 
appropriate oversight and accountability of risk, which facilitates 
reporting and escalation to the Group Risk Management Meeting. 
This structure is summarised in the following table.
 
Authority
Membership
Responsibilities include:
Group Risk Management 
Meeting 
Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer
Group Chief Legal Officer
Group CEO
Group CFO
Group Head of Financial Crime and Group 
Money Laundering Reporting Officer
All other Group Executive Committee 
members
– Supporting the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer in exercising Board-delegated 
risk management authority
– Overseeing the implementation of risk appetite and the risk management framework
– Forward-looking assessment of the risk environment, analysing possible risk impacts 
and taking appropriate action
– Monitoring all categories of risk and determining appropriate mitigating action 
– Promoting a supportive Group culture in relation to risk management and conduct
Group Risk and Compliance 
Executive Committee
Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer
Chief risk and compliance officers of 
HSBC’s global businesses
Regional chief risk and compliance 
officers and chief risk officers
Heads of Global Risk and Compliance 
sub-functions 
– Supporting the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer in providing strategic 
direction for the Group Risk and Compliance function, setting priorities and providing 
oversight
– Overseeing a consistent approach to accountability for, and mitigation of, risk and 
compliance across the Group
Governance structure for the management of risk and compliance
Risk review
128
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Authority
Membership
Responsibilities include:
Global business/regional risk 
management meetings
Global business/regional chief risk and 
compliance officers and chief risk officers
Global business/regional chief executive 
officers
Global business/regional chief financial 
officers
Global business/regional heads of global 
functions
– Supporting the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer in exercising Board-delegated 
risk management authority
– Forward-looking assessment of the risk environment
– Implementation of risk appetite and the risk management framework
– Monitoring all categories of risk and overseeing appropriate mitigating actions
– Embedding a supportive culture in relation to risk management and controls
Governance structure for the management of risk and compliance (continued)
 The Board committees with responsibility for oversight of risk-related matters are set out on page 249.
 Treasury risks are the responsibility of the Group Executive Committee and the Group Risk Committee. Global Treasury actively manages these risks, supported 
by the Holdings Asset and Liability Management Committee (‘ALCO’) and local ALCOs, overseen by Treasury Risk Management and the Group Risk 
Management Meeting. Further details on treasury risk management are set out on page 200.
Our responsibilities
All our people are responsible for identifying and managing risk within 
the scope of their roles. Roles are defined using the three lines of 
defence model, which takes into account our business and functional 
structures as described below.
Three lines of defence
To create a robust control environment to manage risks, we use an 
activity-based three lines of defence model. This model delineates 
management accountabilities and responsibilities for risk 
management and the control environment.
The model underpins our approach to risk management by clarifying 
responsibility and encouraging collaboration, as well as enabling 
effective coordination of risk and control activities. The three lines of 
defence are summarised below:
–
The first line of defence owns the risks and is responsible 
for identifying, recording, reporting and managing these risks in 
line with risk appetite, including that the right controls and 
assessments are in place to mitigate them.
–
The second line of defence challenges the first line of defence on 
effective risk management, and provides advice, guidance and 
assurance of the first line of defence to help ensure it is managing 
risk effectively. 
–
The third line of defence is our Global Internal Audit function, 
which provides independent assurance as to whether our risk 
management approach and processes are designed and operating 
effectively.
Group Risk and Compliance function
Our Group Risk and Compliance function is responsible for the 
Group’s risk management framework. This responsibility includes 
establishing global policy, monitoring risk profiles, and identifying and 
managing forward-looking risk. Group Risk and Compliance is made 
up of sub-functions covering all risks to our business. Forming part of 
the second line of defence, the Group Risk and Compliance function 
is independent from the global businesses, including sales and trading 
functions. It provides challenge, appropriate oversight and balance in 
risk/return decisions.
Responsibility for minimising both financial and non-financial risk, 
including regulatory compliance and financial crime, lies with our 
people. They are required to manage the risks of the business and 
operational activities for which they are responsible. We maintain 
adequate oversight of our risks through our various specialist risk 
stewards and the collective accountability held by our chief risk and 
compliance officers. 
We have continued to strengthen the control environment and our 
approach to the management of risk, as set out in our risk 
management framework. Our ongoing focus is on helping to enable 
more effective oversight and better end-to-end identification and 
management of financial and non-financial risks. This is overseen by 
the Enterprise Risk Management function, headed by the Global Head 
of Enterprise Risk Management.
Stress testing and recovery planning
Our stress testing programme assesses our capital and liquidity 
strength through an examination of our resilience to external shocks, 
and forms part of our risk management and capital and liquidity 
planning. As well as undertaking regulatory-driven stress tests, we 
conduct our own internal stress tests to understand the nature and 
level of material risks, quantify the impact of such risks and develop 
plausible mitigating actions. The outcome of a stress test provides 
management with key insights into the impact of severely adverse 
events on the Group and provides an indication to regulators of the 
Group’s resilience to shocks and financial stability. 
Internal stress tests
Our internal capital assessment uses a range of stress scenarios that 
explore risks identified by management. They include potential 
adverse macroeconomic, geopolitical, climate and operational risk 
events, as well as other potential events that are specific to HSBC. 
The selection of stress scenarios is based upon the output of our 
identified top and emerging risks and our risk appetite processes. 
Stress testing analysis helps management understand the nature and 
extent of vulnerabilities to which the Group is exposed. Using this 
information, management decides whether risks can or should be 
mitigated through management actions or, if they were to crystallise, 
be absorbed through capital and liquidity. This in turn informs 
decisions about preferred capital and liquidity levels and allocations.
During 2024, we completed a Group-wide internal stress test 
alongside testing of the Group’s strategy, otherwise known as the 
corporate plan, to test and inform our strategy and assumptions. The 
stress scenario assessed the impact of two contrasting scenarios 
envisioning severe macroeconomic conditions over a five-year period. 
These scenarios reflected the uncertain inflation and interest rate 
environment, heightened geopolitical tensions, banking sector 
challenges and global economic stress.
In addition to the Group-wide stress testing scenarios, each major 
subsidiary conducts regular macroeconomic and event-driven scenario 
analysis specific to its region. They also participate, as required, in the 
regulatory stress testing programmes of the jurisdictions in which 
they operate, such as stress tests required by the Bank of England 
(‘BoE’) in the UK, the Federal Reserve Board (‘FRB’) in the US, and 
the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (‘HKMA’) in Hong Kong.
We also conduct reverse stress tests each year at Group level and, 
where required, at subsidiary entity level to understand potential 
extreme conditions that would make our business model non-viable. 
Reverse stress testing identifies potential stresses and vulnerabilities 
we might face, and helps inform early warning triggers, management 
actions and contingency plans designed to mitigate risks.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
129
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Recovery and resolution plans 
Recovery and resolution plans form part of the integral framework 
safeguarding the Group’s financial stability under severe stress. The 
Group recovery plan, together with stress testing, helps us identify 
credible recovery options that can be implemented under a range of 
idiosyncratic and market-wide stress scenarios. The aim is to mitigate 
the potential shortfall in capital and liquidity pressures. The Group 
continues to develop its recovery and resolution capabilities, including 
in relation to the Resolvability Assessment Framework. 
Key developments in 2024
In 2024, we continued to manage risks related to macroeconomic and 
geopolitical uncertainties and develop risk management capabilities 
through the continued enhancement of our risk management 
framework. We also retained our focus on risk transformation and 
financial crime and continued to assess the Group’s operational 
resilience capability while prioritising the most significant enterprise 
risks. We made progress with, and continue to develop capabilities to 
address key risks. More specifically, we sought to enhance our risk 
management in the following areas:
–
We are advancing on our comprehensive initiative aimed at 
strengthening our global regulatory reporting processes and 
making them more sustainable. This multifaceted programme 
includes enhancing data, consistency and controls. 
–
We are further strengthening our control environment through the 
delivery of a new Global Control Oversight function which aims to 
help drive a centralised and consistent approach to controls 
oversight across the first line of defence business and process 
owners.
–
We continue to maintain a focus on our technology and 
cybersecurity controls to improve the resilience and security of our 
technology services in response to the heightened external threat 
environment.
–
We have improved the quality of our strategic change investment 
processes and associated control monitoring and are seeking to 
transition to a more agile approach to delivery of complex 
transformation portfolios and initiatives.
–
We continue to enhance our model risk framework in response to 
changes in regulation and external factors. AI and machine learning 
models remain a key focus. Progress has been made in enhancing 
governance activity in this area with particular focus on generative 
AI due to the pace of technological change and regulatory and 
wider interest in adoption and usage. 
–
We enhanced our processes, framework and controls to improve 
the oversight of our material third parties. We have strengthened 
our due diligence and monitoring capabilities, with respect to the 
financial stability of our third parties to better manage our supply 
chain and operational resilience. We will continue to assess and 
manage our operational resilience. 
–
Through our climate risk programme, we made progress on 
embedding climate considerations throughout our organisation, 
including through risk policy updates. We also developed risk 
metrics to monitor and manage exposures, and further enhanced 
our internal climate scenario analysis. We continue to implement 
our climate risk programme to complete our annual materiality 
assessment and make changes to our policies, processes and 
capabilities to better embed climate considerations throughout our 
organisation. 
–
We deployed industry-leading technology and advanced analytics 
capabilities into new markets to improve our ability to identify 
suspicious activities and prevent financial crime. We will continue 
to evaluate technological solutions to improve our capabilities in 
the detection and prevention of financial crime. 
–
We continued to embed our regulatory management systems 
focusing on forward-looking analysis, regulatory mapping, and 
regulatory content for our inventory.
–
We continued to enhance our frameworks, policies and 
governance processes to embed regulatory requirements.
f
Risk review
130
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Top and emerging risks 
We use a top and emerging risks process to provide a forward-looking 
view of issues with the potential to threaten the execution of our 
strategy or operations over the medium to long term.
We proactively assess the internal and external risk environment, as 
well as review the themes identified across our regions and global 
businesses, for any risks that may require global escalation. We 
update our top and emerging risks as necessary.
Our current top and emerging risks are as follows.
Externally driven
Geopolitical and macroeconomic risks
Elections and subsequent changes of government during 2024 have 
created uncertainty as domestic and foreign policy priorities have 
shifted. The US in particular is expected to continue to bring about 
changes to economic and foreign policy that will have broad economic 
and geopolitical implications. 
Key economic and financial risks are monitored closely. Major 
markets, including the US and UK, continued to grow during the 
second half of 2024, due to expansionary fiscal policies and the 
positive impact of monetary easing on domestic demand and 
investment. Similarly, Hong Kong and mainland China also continued 
to grow, despite ongoing declines in house prices and weakness in 
consumer spending. 
The outlook for 2025 remains uncertain as the new US administration 
intends to enact a significant change in economic and foreign policies 
that could have an uncertain impact on global growth, inflation and 
interest rates. In particular, the prospect of additional US tariffs and 
retaliatory actions on trade has started to weigh on economic growth 
forecasts and has raised future inflation expectations. Consequently, 
markets now expect that major central banks will adopt a more 
cautious approach to lowering policy interest rates during the course 
of 2025. 
The prospective impact on individual economies from the imposition 
of higher US tariffs will depend on the breadth and level of the 
increases and the dependence of the relevant countries’ exports on 
US import demand. Emerging markets with higher levels of US dollardenominated debt and weaker public finances could be further 
impacted by higher US interest rates and US dollar strength which 
could result in higher repayment costs and refinancing risks and the 
associated possibility of sovereign rating downgrades.
The country and sector implications of changing global trade policies 
remains an area that is closely monitored. The implications for export 
demand from mainland China and Hong Kong is a key area of 
concern.
Markets continue to finance high public deficits, but debt 
sustainability remains a risk when set against a backdrop of more 
uncertain global growth prospects and a higher interest rate 
environment. Debt levels continue to rise in major markets as 
demands grow on government budgets from rising social welfare 
costs, defence and climate transition. We are monitoring the fiscal 
and market implications of recent government changes, including in 
the UK and the US, where election pledges are ambitious relative to 
already stretched fiscal positions. As global yields have increased, 
government bond prices have become increasingly sensitive to 
differences in growth and inflation expectations between markets, as 
well as the perception of fiscal and funding risks. A loss of investor 
confidence could drive a rise in yields, raise funding costs for 
governments and lead to tax increases and expenditure cuts that are 
negative for growth. For HSBC, the risks of a sharp rise in funding 
costs in our key markets relate both to the credit and refunding risks 
of our customers, market pricing risks of assets held for sale, and 
risks to net interest margins. 
We continue to monitor real estate conditions in mainland China and 
Hong Kong, where activity remains mixed. Various central 
government policies have been introduced to support the property 
market and wider economy, but meaningful signs of recovery are yet 
to be observed, with the exception of the residential real estate 
market in Hong Kong, which has seen some improvement in 
sentiment and transaction volumes in the fourth quarter of 2024.
In Hong Kong, the high vacancy rate in the commercial real estate 
sector and the elevated interest rate environment have added 
downward pressure to the commercial real estate market. 
Commercial land sales resumed during the latter part of 2024 after a 
halt earlier in the year, and the recent reduction in interest rates has 
provided some liquidity relief to borrowers operating in this sector. 
Nevertheless, a sustainable recovery in underlying demand is yet to 
materialise, so the pressure on property prices may persist. We 
continue to closely monitor the risk of further credit deterioration and 
defaults in the portfolio.
The Israel-Hamas conflict may resurge. While a 42-day ceasefire was 
agreed in January 2025, the durability of the ceasefire remains 
uncertain. The regional economic impact of this conflict was relatively 
limited throughout 2024. The US and UK imposed additional sanctions 
on Iran in 2024 in response to Iran’s activities and the increase in 
tensions between Israel and Iran. Further sanctions may be imposed 
and could increase the risk within our operations. While supply chains 
have largely adapted to the Russia-Ukraine war and the conflict in the 
Middle East, the disruption of key supply routes, particularly through 
the Red Sea, continues to impact global supply costs. Escalation, 
resurgence or other changes in the Russia-Ukraine war and the 
conflict in the Middle East could impact economic activity regionally or 
globally for a prolonged period, which in turn could have a material 
adverse effect on the Group’s business, financial condition, results of 
operations, prospects, liquidity, capital position and credit ratings. 
HSBC actively monitors and responds to financial sanctions and trade 
restrictions that have been adopted in response to the conflicts. 
The sanctions and trade restrictions imposed by the US, the UK, and 
the EU, as well as other countries, as a result of the Russia-Ukraine 
war, remain complex, far-reaching and evolving. The US has 
expanded the reach of its secondary sanctions regime, which includes 
broad discretion to impose severe sanctions on non-US banks that are 
knowingly or even unknowingly engaged in certain transactions or 
services directly or indirectly involving Russia’s military-industrial 
base, including certain third-party activities that are difficult to detect 
or beyond HSBC’s control. The imposition of such sanctions against 
any non-US HSBC entity could result in significant adverse 
commercial, operational and reputational consequences for HSBC. In 
response to such sanctions and trade restrictions, as well as asset 
flight, Russia has implemented certain countermeasures, including 
the expropriation of foreign assets. 
Following a strategic review in 2022, HSBC Europe BV (a whollyowned subsidiary of HSBC Bank plc) entered into an agreement to 
sell its wholly-owned subsidiary HSBC Bank Russia (RR) (Limited 
Liability Company), which was completed in May 2024.
Global tensions over trade and technology are resulting in divergent 
regulatory standards and compliance regimes, presenting long-term 
strategic challenges for multinational businesses. The relationships 
between China and several other countries, including the US and the 
UK, remain complex. 
To date, the US, the UK, the EU and other countries have imposed 
various sanctions and trade restrictions on Chinese persons and 
companies, and there is a continued risk of additional sanctions and 
trade restrictions or tariffs being imposed by the US and other 
governments in relation to, among other things, alleged human rights 
abuses, advances in certain sensitive technologies, territorial conflicts, 
and the illicit trade of fentanyl and other synthetic opioids. Strategic 
competition with China has the potential to impact the Group's 
operations and global supply chains remain vulnerable to a 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
131
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

deterioration in the relationship between China and other countries. 
For example, the US recently imposed a new programme restricting 
certain US outbound investments in Chinese companies engaged in 
sensitive technology sectors and the EU is considering a similar 
programme. In addition, during 2024 both the US and the EU raised 
the rate at which they levy tariffs on a range of Chinese imports, 
including electric vehicles. These have been imposed on the basis of 
unfair competition, where the Chinese government is accused of 
providing unfair subsidies to industry.
China, in turn, imposed a number of its own sanctions and trade 
restrictions that target, or provide authority to target, foreign 
individuals or companies as well as certain goods such as rare earth 
minerals and metals, and technology and services. These, as well as 
certain other retaliatory measures, have been and may continue to be 
imposed against certain countries, businesses and individuals. 
Existing and additional sanctions, trade restrictions, counter-sanctions 
and other retaliatory measures relating to the foregoing or other 
geopolitical tensions may adversely affect the Group, its customers 
and the markets in which the Group operates by creating regulatory, 
reputational and market risks, including additional inflationary 
pressures, and a more complex operating environment.
As the geopolitical landscape evolves, compliance by multinational 
corporations with their legal or regulatory obligations in one 
jurisdiction may be seen as supporting the law or policy objectives of 
that jurisdiction over another, creating additional legal, regulatory, 
reputational and political risks for the Group. We maintain dialogue 
with our regulators in various jurisdictions on the impact of legal and 
regulatory obligations on our business and customers.
The financial impact on the Group of geopolitical risks in Asia is 
heightened due to the region’s relatively high contribution to the 
Group’s profitability, particularly in Hong Kong.
While it is the Group‘s policy to comply with all applicable laws and 
regulations of all jurisdictions in which it operates, geopolitical 
tensions and potential ambiguities in the Group’s compliance 
obligations continue to present challenges and risks for the Group, 
and could have a material adverse impact on the Group’s strategy, 
business, customers, operations, financial results and reputation.
More stringent data privacy, national security and cybersecurity laws 
in a number of markets could pose potential challenges to intra-Group 
data sharing. These developments may affect our ability to manage 
financial crime risks across markets due to limitations on cross-border 
transfers of personal information.
Provisioning against credit loss is conducted under the IFRS 9 
‘Financial Instruments’ (’IFRS 9’) calculations of ECL, which use 
forward-looking scenarios that incorporate the economic and financial 
risks detailed above.
Key considerations in our calculation of ECLs included inflationary 
pressures, interest rates and changes to economic and financial 
policies. In the fourth quarter of 2024, to address heightened policy 
uncertainty following the US election and to overcome any lags in 
consensus forecasts, an adjustment factor based on more recent 
views of expected tariffs and other policy changes was modelled and 
then applied to each of the economic scenarios. The effect was to 
lower growth expectations in our major markets, while the impact on 
inflation and interest rates was varied.
Following the adjustment the Central scenario continues to be 
assigned the highest probability weighting across all of our major 
markets. Outer scenarios have incorporated more adverse tariff 
escalations and the escalation of key geopolitical risks. 
There remains uncertainty regarding the adequacy of our models to 
reflect credit losses under emerging risks which are not captured 
under the historical loss experience of our models, or to adequately 
distinguish risks for specific sectors or portfolios. 
The above risks could also have an impact on our customers and we 
continue to closely monitor the potential impacts and offer support to 
our customers in line with regulatory, government and wider 
stakeholder expectations.
 For further details of our Central and other scenarios, see ‘Measurement 
uncertainty and sensitivity analysis of ECL estimates’ on page 148.
Mitigating actions 
–
We closely monitor geopolitical and economic developments in 
key markets and sectors and undertake scenario analysis where 
appropriate. This helps us to take actions to manage our portfolios 
where necessary, including through enhanced monitoring, 
amending our risk appetite and/or reducing limits and exposures. 
–
We stress test portfolios of particular concern to identify 
sensitivity to loss under a range of scenarios, with management 
actions being taken to rebalance exposures and manage risk 
appetite where necessary. 
–
We apply management judgemental adjustments where modelled 
ECL does not fully reflect the identified risks and related 
uncertainty, or to capture significant late-breaking events.
–
We regularly review key portfolios – including our commercial real 
estate portfolio – to help ensure that individual customer or 
portfolio risks are understood and that our ability to manage the 
level of facilities offered through any downturn is appropriate.
–
We continue to seek to manage sanctions and trade restrictions 
through the use of reasonably-designed policies, procedures and 
controls, which are subject to ongoing testing and enhancements.
–
We have taken steps, where necessary, to enhance physical 
security in geographical areas deemed to be at high risk from 
terrorism and military conflicts.
Technology and cybersecurity risk
Like other organisations, we operate in an extensive and complex 
technology landscape. We need to remain resilient in order to support 
customers, our colleagues and financial markets globally. Risks arise 
where, for example, technology is not understood, maintained or 
developed appropriately. We also continue to operate in an 
increasingly complex cyber threat environment globally. These threats 
include potential unauthorised access to systems including access to 
customer data, whether ours or that of our third-party suppliers’. 
These threats require ongoing investment in business and technical 
controls to defend against them.
Mitigating actions
–
We continue to upgrade many of our technology systems and are 
transforming how software solutions are developed, delivered, 
maintained and tested as part of our investment in the Group’s 
operational resilience capabilities to seek to meet the expectations 
of our customers and regulators, and to help prevent disruptions to 
our services.
–
Our cyber intelligence and threat analysis team continually 
evaluate threat levels for the most prevalent cyber-attack types 
and their potential outcomes (see page 84), and we continue to 
seek to strengthen our controls to help reduce the likelihood and 
impact of attacks including advanced malware, data leakage, 
exposure through third parties and security vulnerabilities.
–
We continue to seek to enhance our cybersecurity capabilities, 
including Cloud security, identity and access management, metrics 
and data analytics, and third-party security reviews and to invest in 
mitigating the potential threats of emerging technologies.
–
We regularly report and review cyber risk and control 
effectiveness at executive level across global businesses, 
functions and regions, as well as at non-executive Board level to 
help enable appropriate visibility and governance of the risk and its 
mitigating actions.
–
We participate globally in industry bodies and working groups, 
working together to seek to prevent, detect and defend against 
cyber-attacks on financial organisations globally.
–
We respond to attempts to compromise our cybersecurity in 
accordance with our cybersecurity framework. To date, none of 
these attacks have had a material impact on our business or 
operations.
Risk review
132
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Environmental, social and governance (’ESG’) risk
We are subject to financial and non-financial risks associated with 
ESG-related matters, such as climate change, nature-related and 
human rights issues. These matters can impact us both directly and 
indirectly through our business activities and relationships. For details 
of how we govern ESG, see page 74.
We may face credit losses if climate-related regulatory, legislative or 
technological developments impact customers’ business models or if 
extreme weather events disrupt or interrupt customers’ operations, 
resulting in financial difficulty for customers and/or stranded assets, 
and impacting their ability to repay their debts. Our customers may 
find that their business models fail to align to a net zero economy or 
face disruption to their operations or deterioration to their assets as a 
result of extreme weather.
Trading losses may arise if climate change results in changes to 
macroeconomic and financial variables that negatively impact our 
trading book exposures.
We may also be exposed to liquidity impacts in the form of deposit 
outflows due to changes in customer behaviours driven by impacts to 
profitability/wealth, or from reputational concerns relating to the 
progress we make towards our climate-related ambitions and targets.
We may face impacts to our real estate portfolios due to changes to 
the climate, an increase in the frequency and severity of extreme 
weather events and chronic shifts in weather patterns, which could 
impact both property values and the ability of borrowers to afford their 
mortgage payments. This may lead to the reduced availability or 
increased cost of insurance, including insurance that protects property 
pledged as collateral of HSBC mortgages.
Operational risk may increase if extreme weather events impact 
critical operations and premises.
We may face regulatory compliance risk resulting from the increasing 
pace, breadth and depth of climate-related regulatory expectations, 
including on the management of climate risk, and variations in 
climate-related reporting standards, requiring implementation in short 
timeframes across multiple jurisdictions.
Conduct risk may arise in association with the increasing demand for 
‘green’ or ‘sustainable’ products where there are differing and 
developing standards or taxonomies.
We may face reputational risk arising from how we decide to support 
our customers in high-emitting sectors in their transition to net zero, 
the preferences of different stakeholders in relation to our approach 
to the transition to net zero, and if we make insufficient progress in 
achieving our climate-related ambitions and targets.
We may also be exposed to model risk, as the uncertain and evolving 
impacts of climate change as well as data and methodology 
limitations, present challenges to creating reliable and accurate model 
outputs.
Reputational, regulatory compliance and legal risks may increase as 
we make progress towards our ESG-related ambitions and targets, 
with stakeholders likely to place greater focus on our actions, such as 
the development of ESG-related policies, our disclosures and 
financing and investment decisions relating to our ESG-related 
ambitions and targets.
We may be exposed to additional risks if we fail to: 
–
make sufficient progress towards our ESG-related ambitions and 
targets;
–
set adequate plans to execute those plans or adapt those plans to 
changes in the external environment; 
–
manage the risks associated both with meeting and not meeting 
our ESG-related ambitions and targets; and
–
meet evolving regulatory expectations and requirements on the 
management of ESG risks.
We may face additional risks if we knowingly or unknowingly make 
inaccurate, unclear, misleading, or unsubstantiated claims regarding 
sustainability to our stakeholders.
We may face climate and ESG-related litigation and regulatory 
enforcement risks, either directly if stakeholders think that we are not 
adequately managing climate and ESG-related risks, or indirectly, if 
our clients and customers are themselves the subject of litigation, 
potentially resulting in the revaluation of their assets.
Requirements, policy objectives, expectations, views or market and 
public perceptions and preferences in connection with the transition to a 
net zero economy and ESG-related matters may vary by jurisdiction and 
stakeholder, particularly in light of the differing perspectives of 
stakeholders in different markets, including the UK, the US, the EU and 
other markets regarding climate impacts and the nature of the 
appropriate responses to climate change. We may be subject to 
potentially conflicting approaches to ESG matters in certain jurisdictions, 
which may impact our ability to conduct certain business within those 
jurisdictions or result in additional regulatory compliance, reputational, 
political or litigation risks. For example, our reputation and client 
relationships may be damaged as a result of our decision to participate, 
or not to participate, in certain projects perceived to be associated with 
causing or exacerbating climate change, as well as any decisions we 
make to continue to conduct or change our activities in response to 
considerations relating to climate change, including the transition to net 
zero. These risks may also arise from divergence in the implementation 
of ESG, climate policy and financial regulation in the many regions in 
which we operate, including initiatives to apply and enforce policy and 
regulation with extraterritorial effect.
We may face financial reporting risk in relation to our climate and ESG 
disclosures, as data remains of limited quality and consistency, exposing 
us to the risk of using incomplete and inaccurate data and models that 
could result in sub-optimal decision making. Methodologies, data, 
scenarios and industry standards that we have used may evolve over 
time in line with market practice, regulation or developments in science, 
where applicable. Any such developments in methodologies and 
scenarios, and changes in the availability, accuracy and verifiability of 
data over time and our ability to collect and process such data, exposes 
us to financial reporting risk in relation to our climate and ESG 
disclosures. This could result in revisions to our internal measurement 
frameworks as well as reported data going forward, including on 
financed emissions, meaning that such data may not be reconcilable or 
comparable year on year. We may also have to re-evaluate our progress 
towards our ESG-related ambitions and targets in the future. 
We may also be exposed to nature-related risks beyond climate change. 
These risks may arise when the provision of ecosystem services, such 
as water availability, air quality and soil quality, is compromised, primarily 
by the five key drivers of nature loss: changes in land/freshwater/seause; climate change; pollution of air, water and soil; over-exploitation of 
natural resources; and invasive alien species. They can manifest 
themselves in a variety of ways for both HSBC and its customers, 
including through macroeconomic, market, credit, reputational, 
regulatory compliance and legal risks.
Regulation and disclosure requirements in relation to human rights 
are increasing. Businesses are expected to be transparent about their 
efforts to identify and respond to the risk of adverse human rights 
impacts arising from their business activities and relationships. Failure 
to manage this risk may negatively impact people and communities, 
which in turn may result in reputational, regulatory compliance and 
legal risks for HSBC. 
Mitigating actions
–
The Environmental Risk Steering Meeting provides oversight of 
environmental risk and the risk of greenwashing. For further 
details of the Group’s ESG governance structure, see page 74.
–
Our climate risk programme continues to support the development 
of our climate risk management capabilities across four key pillars: 
governance and risk appetite, risk management, stress testing and 
scenario analysis, and disclosures.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
133
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

–
We continue to enhance our approach to managing and mitigating 
the risk of greenwashing.
–
Our sustainability risk policies form part of our broader risk 
management framework and are important mechanisms for 
managing risks. Our sustainability risk policies focus on mitigating 
reputational, credit, legal and other risks related to our customers’ 
environmental and social impacts. For further details of our 
sustainability risk policies, see page 62.
–
We are developing our understanding of nature-related risks in line 
with European regulatory expectations.
–
In 2024, we focused on our approach to human rights risk 
management relating to the goods and services we buy from third 
parties and in respect of our business customers. For further 
details of our approach to human rights risk management, see 
page 75. 
–
The scope of our financial reporting risk framework includes 
oversight of the accuracy and completeness of climate and ESG 
disclosures. Our risk appetite statement references our climate 
and ESG disclosures. Our internal controls incorporate 
requirements for addressing the risk of misstatement in climate 
and ESG disclosures. To support this, we have developed a 
framework to guide control implementation over climate and ESG 
disclosures, which includes areas such as process and data 
governance, and risk assessment. 
–
We continue to engage with our customers, investors and 
regulators proactively on the management of climate and ESG 
risks. We also engage with initiatives, including the Climate 
Financial Risk Forum, Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures and CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project) to 
help drive best practice for climate risk management.
 For further details of our approach to climate risk management, see ‘Climate 
risk’ on page 219.
 Our ESG review can be found on page 41.
 
Financial crime risk 
Financial institutions remain under considerable regulatory scrutiny 
regarding their ability to detect and prevent financial crime. In 2024, 
these risks continued to be exacerbated by rising geopolitical tensions 
and ongoing macroeconomic factors. These challenges require 
managing conflicting laws and approaches to legal and regulatory 
regimes, and implementing increasingly complex and less predictable 
sanctions and trade restrictions. 
Amid increasing cost of living pressures, we continue to face 
increasing regulatory expectations with respect to managing internal 
and external fraud and protecting customers. The accessibility and 
increasing sophistication of generative AI brings additional financial 
crime risks. While there is potential for the technology to support 
financial crime detection, there is also a risk that criminals use 
generative AI to perpetrate fraud, particularly scams.
The digitisation of financial services continues to have an impact on 
the payments ecosystem, with an increasing number of new market 
entrants and payment mechanisms, not all of which are subject to the 
same level of regulatory scrutiny or regulations as banks. 
Developments around digital assets and currencies have continued at 
pace, with an increasing regulatory and enforcement focus on the 
financial crimes linked to these types of assets.
The intersection of ESG issues and financial crime continues to pose 
risks related to potential ‘greenwashing’, human rights issues and 
environmental crime, as our organisation, customers and suppliers 
transition to net zero. In addition, climate change itself could heighten 
risks linked to vulnerable migrant populations in countries where 
financial crime is already more prevalent.
We also continue to face increasing challenges presented by national 
data privacy requirements, which may affect our ability to manage 
financial crime risks across markets. 
Mitigating actions 
–
We continue to seek to manage sanctions and trade restrictions 
through the use of reasonably designed policies, procedures and 
controls, which are subject to ongoing testing and enhancements.
–
We continue to develop our fraud controls and invest in 
capabilities to fight financial crime through the application of 
advanced analytics and AI, while monitoring technological 
developments and engaging with third parties.
–
We continue to assess the impact of a rapidly changing payments 
ecosystem, as well as risks associated with direct and indirect 
exposure to digital assets and currencies, in an effort to maintain 
appropriate financial crime controls.
–
We regularly review our existing policies and control framework so 
that developments relating to ESG are considered and the related 
financial crime risks are mitigated to the extent possible.
–
We engage with regulators, policymakers and relevant 
international bodies, seeking to address data privacy challenges 
through international standards, guidance and legislation.
Digitalisation and technological 
advances risk 
Developments in technology and changes to regulations are enabling 
new entrants to the industry, particularly with respect to payments. 
This challenges us to continue innovating to address evolving 
customer requirements, drive efficiency and adapt our products to 
attract and retain customers. As a result, we may need to increase 
investment in our business to adapt or develop products and services 
to respond to our customers’ evolving needs. We aim to ensure that 
new digital capabilities do not weaken our resilience or wider risk 
management capabilities.
New technologies such as generative AI, large language models, 
blockchain, and quantum computing offer both business opportunities 
and potential risks for HSBC. As with the use of all technologies, we 
aim to maximise their potential while seeking to ensure a robust 
control environment is in place to help manage the inherent risks.
Mitigating actions
–
We continue to monitor this emerging risk and advances in 
technology, as well as changes in customer behaviours, to 
understand how these may impact our business. 
–
We assess new technologies to help develop appropriate controls 
and maintain resilience.
–
We closely monitor and assess financial crime risk and the impact 
on payment transparency and wider payment infrastructure.
–
We conduct risk assessments and have governance in place (for 
example on AI and digital assets and currencies) to help enable 
Group-wide cross-risk focus on areas of emerging technology.
–
We make public commitments as to how we engage with new 
technology innovation, for example publishing HSBC’s Principles 
for the Ethical Use of Data and AI. 
–
We continue to make improvements to our related policies and to 
our control framework in order to enhance the end-to-end 
management of risks from new technology innovations.
Evolving regulatory environment risk
We aim to keep abreast of the emerging regulatory compliance and 
conduct risk agenda. Current focus areas include but are not limited 
to: ESG developments, particularly managing the risk of 
‘greenwashing’; ensuring good customer outcomes and addressing 
customer vulnerabilities; enhancements to regulatory reporting 
controls; employee compliance including the use of e-communication 
channels; and developments in legal principles or conduct 
requirements (including in relation to the risk of such developments in 
one part of the financial industry being construed as applying to other 
parts of the financial industry, which could lead to legal or regulatory 
proceedings). 
Risk review
134
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The competitive landscape in which the Group operates may be 
impacted by future regulatory changes and government intervention 
including changes driven by governments adopting a pro-business 
growth agenda.
Mitigating actions
–
We monitor regulatory developments to understand the evolving 
regulatory landscape, and seek to respond with changes in a 
timely manner.
–
We engage with governments and regulators, and respond to 
consultations with a view to help shape regulations that can be 
implemented effectively.
–
We hold regular meetings with relevant authorities to discuss 
strategic contingency plans, including those arising from 
geopolitical issues. 
–
Our purpose-led conduct approach aligns to our purpose and 
values, in particular the value ‘we take responsibility’.
Internally driven
Data risk
We use multiple systems and growing quantities of data to support 
our customers. Risk arises if data is incorrect, unavailable, misused or 
unprotected. Along with other banks and financial institutions, we 
need to meet external regulatory obligations and laws that cover data, 
such as the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s 239 
guidelines and the General Data Protection Regulation.
Mitigating actions 
–
Through our global data management framework, we monitor the 
quality, availability and security of data that supports our 
customers and internal processes. We work towards resolving any 
identified data issues in a timely manner.
–
We continue to make improvements to our data policies and to our 
control framework – which includes trusted sources, data flows 
and data quality – in order to enhance the end-to-end management 
of data risk.
–
We have established a global data management utility and 
continue to simplify and unify data management activities across 
the Group.
–
We seek to protect customer data through our data privacy 
framework, which establishes practices, design principles and 
guidelines that enable us to demonstrate compliance with data 
privacy laws and regulations.
–
We continue to modernise our data and analytics infrastructure 
through investments in cloud technology, data visualisation, 
machine learning and AI.
–
We continue to educate our employees on data risk and data 
management. We have delivered regular mandatory training 
globally on how to protect and manage data appropriately.
Risks arising from the receipt of 
services from third parties
We use third parties to provide a range of goods and services. It is 
critical that we seek to have appropriate risk management policies, 
processes and practices over the selection, governance and oversight 
of third parties and their supply chain, particularly for key activities 
that could affect our operational resilience. Any deficiency in the 
management of risks associated with our third parties could affect our 
ability to support our customers and meet regulatory expectations.
Mitigating actions
–
We continue to monitor the effectiveness of the controls operated 
by our third-party providers and request third-party control reports, 
where required. 
–
We continued to develop the management of our intra-group 
arrangements using the same control standards as we apply to 
external third party arrangements.
–
We have strengthened our due diligence and monitoring 
capabilities in respect of the financial stability of our third parties. 
–
We have strengthened the way third-party risk is overseen and 
managed across all non-financial risks, and have enhanced our 
processes, framework and reporting capabilities to help improve 
the visibility of risk and enable more robust management of our 
material third parties by our global businesses, functions and 
regions.
–
We are implementing the changes required by new regulations as 
set by our regulators.
Model risk 
Model risk arises whenever business decision making includes 
reliance on models. We use models in both financial and non-financial 
contexts, as well as in a range of business applications such as 
customer selection, product pricing, financial crime transaction 
monitoring, creditworthiness evaluation and financial reporting. 
Assessing model performance is a continuous undertaking including 
both regular monitoring of the model’s performance and more 
fundamental reviews of the model construct and data. 
Model risk remains a key area of focus given the regulatory scrutiny in 
this area, with local regulatory exams taking place in many 
jurisdictions and the PRA’s supervisory statement 1/23 (SS1/23) 
coming into effect, This provided detailed principles-based guidance 
on how model risk should be managed, and further developments in 
policy are also expected from other regulators.
We continued to prioritise the redevelopment of internal ratings-based 
(‘IRB’) and internal model methods (‘IMM’) models, in relation to 
counterparty credit, as part of the IRB repair and Basel 3.1 and 
Fundamental Review of the Trading Book programmes. We have a 
key focus on enhancing the quality of data used as model inputs and 
ensuring that models adhere to both the letter and spirit of the 
regulation. Some models have been approved and a number are 
pending approval decisions from the UK’s Prudential Regulation 
Authority (‘PRA’) and other key regulators. We also launched a major 
project to develop 32 Wholesale IRB models which are expected to 
be submitted for regulatory approval over the next two and a half 
years. 
Focus remains on AI and machine learning models where the pace of 
technological advances, including the development of generative AI, 
is driving significant changes in modelling techniques, and regulators 
across the globe are beginning to publish regulations and guidance.
Mitigating actions
–
We are investing in the redevelopment of our IRB models used in 
our wholesale businesses to enhance our modelling capability and 
help ensure we meet regulatory expectations for the adoption of 
Basel 3.1 requirements.
–
We updated our Model Risk Management (‘MRM’) framework to 
meet the requirements of the PRA’s SS1/23 with a programme of 
work in progress to implement these changes across our model 
landscape.
–
We completed a review of model tiering across the organisation 
assessing the materiality and complexity of all models and 
assigning a new tier which will drive the level of oversight required 
at model level.
–
We introduced a new framework to govern and manage the risks 
associated with Deterministic Quantitative Methods. These are 
complex and material calculators, which although not technically 
models, still present similar risks. 
–
Model Risk Governance committees at the Group, business and 
functional levels continue to provide oversight of model risk.
–
Model Risk Management works closely with businesses to help 
develop IRB/IMM/IMA/IFRS 9/stress testing models to meet risk 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
135
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

management, pricing, capital management, and credit risk 
measurement needs. 
–
Additional assurance work is performed by the model risk
governance teams, which act as second lines of defence. The
teams test whether controls implemented by model users comply
with model risk policy and if model risk procedures are adequate.
–
Models using AI or generative AI techniques are reviewed by the
relevant risk teams and monitored by the business to help ensure
that identified risks have adequate oversight and review. A
framework to manage the range of risks that are generated by
these advanced techniques and to recognise the multidisciplinary
nature of these risks has been developed.
Change execution risk
The needs of our customers are evolving faster than ever, and the 
complexity and pace of strategic, regulatory and technological change 
require us to improve the way we prioritise resources and deliver 
strategic outcomes safely and sustainably. The embedding of 
structural changes throughout the Group, arising as part of the 
reorganisation of our businesses announced in October 2024, is 
expected to enable the strategy to be executed more efficiently but 
may elevate the level of change execution risk in the near to medium 
term.
Mitigating actions
–
We have strengthened our investment case and prioritisation
processes, while improving the monitoring and oversight of our
change portfolio and overall operating control environment.
–
The Change Prioritisation and Oversight Committee continues to
oversee the prioritisation, strategic alignment, and management of
execution risk for strategic change portfolios and initiatives.
Additionally, the HSBC Holdings Board provides enhanced
oversight over the simplification programme, directly supervising
its mobilisation and delivery.
–
Change benefits and funding will be aligned to the new Group
organisational structure. Consideration of integrated business and
technology architecture design will be a critical input to our
prioritisation of future change investment.
Risks associated with workforce 
capability, capacity and 
environmental factors with potential 
impact on growth
Our global businesses and functions in all of our markets are exposed 
to risks associated with workforce capacity challenges, including 
challenges to retain, develop and attract high-performing employees 
in key labour markets, the changing skills requirements of our 
workforce and compliance with employment laws and regulations. 
Failure to manage these risks may have an impact on the delivery of 
our strategic objectives. It could also result in poor customer 
outcomes or a breach of employment laws and regulations, which 
may lead to regulatory sanctions or legal claims.
Mitigating actions
–
We seek to promote an inclusive workforce and provide health and
wellbeing support. We continue to build our speak-up culture
through active campaigns.
–
We monitor hiring activities and levels of employee attrition, with
each business and function putting in place plans to help ensure
they have effective workforce forecasting to meet business
demands.
–
We monitor people risks that could arise due to organisational
restructuring, seeking to ensure that we manage redundancies
sensitively and support impacted employees. We encourage our
people leaders to focus on talent retention at all levels, with an
empathetic mindset and approach, while ensuring the whole
proposition of working at HSBC is well understood.
–
Our Future Skills curriculum aims to provide skills that enable
employees and HSBC to be successful in the future.
–
We develop succession plans for key management roles, with
oversight from the Group Executive Committee.
Risk review
136
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Our material banking risks
The material risk types associated with our banking and insurance manufacturing operations are described in the following tables:
Credit risk See page 139
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss 
if a customer or counterparty fails to 
meet an obligation under a contract. 
Credit risk arises principally from direct 
lending, trade finance and leasing 
business, but also from other products 
such as guarantees and derivatives.
Credit risk is:
– measured as the amount that could be lost if a customer or counterparty 
fails to make repayments; 
– monitored using various internal risk management measures and within 
limits approved by individuals within a framework of delegated authorities; 
and
– managed through a risk control framework, which outlines clear 
and consistent policies, principles and guidance for risk managers; and by 
setting limits and appetite across geographical markets, portfolios or 
sectors.
Treasury risk See page 200
Treasury risk is the risk of having 
insufficient capital, liquidity or funding 
resources to meet financial 
obligations and satisfy regulatory 
requirements, including the risk of an 
adverse impact on earnings or capital 
due to structural and transactional 
foreign exchange exposures and 
changes in market interest rates, 
together with pension and insurance 
risk.
Treasury risk arises from changes to the 
respective resources and risk profiles 
driven by customer behaviour, 
management decisions or the external 
environment.
Treasury risk is: 
– measured through risk appetite and more granular limits, set to provide an 
early warning of increasing risk, minimum ratios of relevant regulatory 
metrics, and metrics to monitor the key risk drivers impacting treasury 
resources;
– monitored and projected against appetites and by using operating plans 
based on strategic objectives together with stress and scenario testing; and 
– managed through control of resources in conjunction with risk profiles, 
strategic objectives and cash flows.
Market risk See page 216
Market risk is the risk of an adverse 
financial impact on trading activities 
arising from changes in market 
parameters such as interest rates, 
foreign exchange rates, asset prices, 
volatilities, correlations and credit 
spreads.
Market risk arises from both trading 
portfolios and non-trading portfolios. 
Market risk for non-trading portfolios is 
discussed in the Treasury risk section on 
page 212. Market risk exposures arising 
from our insurance operations are 
discussed on page 234.
Market risk is:
– measured using sensitivities, value at risk and stress testing, giving a 
detailed picture of potential gains and losses for a range of market 
movements and scenarios, as well as tail risks over specified time horizons;
– monitored using value at risk, stress testing and other measures; and
– managed using risk limits approved by the Group Risk Management 
Meeting and the risk management meetings in various global businesses. 
Climate risk See page 219
Climate risk relates to the financial 
and non-financial impacts that may 
arise as a result of climate change 
and the move to a net zero economy.
Climate risk can materialise through: 
–
physical risk, which arises from the 
increased frequency and severity of 
weather events;
–
transition risk, which arises from the 
process of moving to a net zero 
economy; 
–
net zero alignment risk, which arises 
from failing to meet our net zero 
ambition or to meet external 
expectations related to net zero; and 
–
the risk of greenwashing, which arises 
from the act of knowingly or 
unknowingly making inaccurate, 
unclear, misleading or unsubstantiated 
claims regarding sustainability to 
stakeholders.
Climate risk is:
–
measured using risk metrics and stress testing;
–
monitored against risk appetite statements; and
–
managed through adherence to risk appetite thresholds, through specific 
policies, and through enhancements to processes and development of 
tools including the development of product market controls to manage the 
risk of greenwashing and the development of portfolio steering capabilities 
to manage our net zero ambitions.
Resilience risk See page 228
Resilience risk is the risk of sustained 
and significant business disruption 
from execution, delivery, physical 
security or safety events, causing the 
inability to provide critical services to 
our customers, affiliates, and 
counterparties.
Resilience risk arises from failures or 
inadequacies in processes, people, 
systems or external events.
Resilience risk is: 
–
measured using a range of metrics and against our agreed risk appetite;
–
monitored through oversight of enterprise processes, risks, controls and 
strategic change programmes; and
–
managed by continual monitoring and thematic reviews.
Description of risks – banking operations
Risks
Arising from
Measurement, monitoring and management of risk
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
137
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Regulatory compliance risk 
Regulatory compliance risk is the risk 
associated with breaching our duty to 
clients and other counterparties, 
inappropriate market conduct 
(including unauthorised trading) and 
breaching related financial services 
regulatory standards.
 See page 229
Regulatory compliance risk arises from the 
failure to observe relevant laws, codes, 
rules and regulations and can manifest 
itself in poor market or customer outcomes 
and lead to fines, penalties and reputational 
damage to our business. 
Regulatory compliance risk is:
–
measured by reference to risk appetite, identified metrics, incident 
assessments, regulatory feedback and the judgement and assessment of 
our regulatory compliance teams;
–
monitored against the first line of defence risk and control assessments, 
and the results of the monitoring and control assurance activities of the 
second line of defence functions; and
–
managed by establishing and communicating appropriate policies and 
procedures, training employees in them and monitoring activity to help 
embed their observance. Proactive risk control and/or remediation work is 
undertaken where required.
Financial crime risk 
 See page 229
Financial crime risk is the risk that 
HSBC’s products and services will be 
exploited for criminal activity. This 
includes fraud, bribery and 
corruption, tax evasion, sanctions 
and export control violations and 
evasion, money laundering, terrorist 
financing and proliferation financing.
Financial crime risk arises from day-to-day 
banking operations involving customers, 
third parties and employees. 
Financial crime risk is: 
–
measured by reference to risk appetite, identified metrics, incident 
assessments, regulatory feedback and the judgement of, and assessment 
by, our financial crime teams;
–
monitored against the first line of defence risk and control assessments, 
and the results of the monitoring and control assurance activities of the 
second line of defence functions; and
–
managed by establishing and communicating appropriate policies and 
procedures, training employees and monitoring activity to help embed 
their observance. Proactive risk control and/or remediation work is 
undertaken where required.
Model risk 
 See page 230
Model risk is the risk of the potential 
for adverse consequences from 
model errors or the inappropriate use 
of modelled outputs to inform 
business decisions. 
Model risk arises in both financial and nonfinancial contexts whenever business 
decision making includes reliance on 
models. 
Model risk is:
– measured by reference to model performance tracking and the output of 
detailed technical reviews and regulatory feedback, with key metrics 
including model review statuses and findings;
– monitored against model risk appetite statements, insight from the 
independent validations completed by the model risk management team; 
and
– managed by creating and communicating appropriate policies, procedures 
and guidance, training colleagues in their application, and supervising their 
adoption to help ensure operational effectiveness.
Description of risks – banking operations (continued)
Risks
Arising from
Measurement, monitoring and management of risk
Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries are regulated separately from our banking operations. Risks in our insurance entities are managed 
using methodologies and processes that are subject to Group oversight. Our insurance operations are also subject to many of the same risks as 
our banking operations, and these are covered by the Group’s risk management processes. However, there are specific risks inherent to the 
insurance operations as noted below.
Financial risk See page 231
For insurance entities, financial risk 
includes the risk of not being able to 
effectively match liabilities arising 
under insurance contracts with 
appropriate investments and that the 
expected sharing of financial 
performance with policyholders 
under certain contracts is not 
possible.
Exposure to financial risk arises from: 
– market risk affecting the fair values of 
financial assets or their future cash 
flows;
– credit risk; and
– liquidity risk of entities being unable to 
make payments to policyholders as they 
fall due.
Financial risk is:
– measured for credit risk, in terms of economic capital and the amount that 
could be lost if a counterparty fails to make repayments; for market risk, in 
terms of economic capital, internal metrics and fluctuations in key financial 
variables; and for liquidity risk, in terms of internal metrics including 
stressed operational cash flow projections;
– monitored through a framework of approved limits and delegated 
authorities; and
– managed through a risk control framework, which outlines clear and 
consistent policies, principles and guidance. This includes using product 
design, asset liability matching and bonus rates. 
Insurance risk See page 235
Insurance risk is the risk that, over 
time, the cost of insurance policies 
written, including claims and 
benefits, may exceed the total 
amount of premiums and investment 
income received.
The cost of claims and benefits can be 
influenced by many factors, including 
mortality and morbidity experience, as well 
as lapse and surrender rates.
Insurance risk is:
– measured in terms of life insurance liabilities and economic capital allocated 
to insurance underwriting risk;
– monitored through a framework of approved limits and delegated 
authorities; and
– managed through a risk control framework, which outlines clear and 
consistent policies, principles and guidance. This includes using product 
design, underwriting, reinsurance and claims-handling procedures.
Description of risks – insurance manufacturing operations
Risks
Arising from
Measurement, monitoring and management of risk
Risk review
138
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Credit risk 
Contents
139
Overview
139
Credit risk management
141
Credit risk in 2024
142
Summary of credit risk
145
Stage 2 decomposition
146
Assets held for sale
147
Credit exposure 
148
Measurement uncertainty and sensitivity analysis of ECL estimates
161
Reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and 
allowances for loans and advances to banks and customers including 
loan commitments and financial guarantees
166
Credit quality
170
Wholesale lending
184
Personal lending
195
Supplementary information
199
HSBC Holdings 
Overview
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty 
fails to meet an obligation under a contract. Credit risk arises 
principally from direct lending, trade finance and leasing business, but 
also from other products such as guarantees and derivatives. 
Credit risk management
Key developments in 2024
There were no material changes to the policies and practices for the 
management of credit risk in 2024. We continued to apply the 
requirements of IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ within the Credit Risk 
sub-function. 
We actively managed the risks related to macroeconomic 
uncertainties, including interest rates, inflation, fiscal and monetary 
policy, broader geopolitical uncertainties and conflicts.
For further details, see ‘Top and emerging risks’ on page 131.
Governance and structure
We have established Group-wide credit risk management and related 
IFRS 9 processes. We continue to assess the impact of economic 
developments in key markets on specific customers, customer 
segments or portfolios. As credit conditions change, we take 
mitigating actions, including the revision of risk appetites or limits and 
tenors, as appropriate. In addition, we continue to evaluate the terms 
under which we provide credit facilities within the context of 
individual customer requirements, the quality of the relationship, local 
regulatory requirements, market practices and our local market 
position.
Credit Risk sub-function
(Audited)
Credit approval authorities are delegated by the Board to the Group 
CEO together with the authority to sub-delegate them. The Credit 
Risk sub-function in Group Risk and Compliance is responsible for the 
key policies and processes for managing credit risk, which include 
formulating Group credit policies and risk rating frameworks, guiding 
the Group’s appetite for credit risk exposures, undertaking 
independent reviews and objective assessment of credit risk, and 
monitoring performance and management of portfolios.
The principal objectives of our credit risk management are:
–
to maintain across HSBC a strong culture of responsible lending, 
and robust risk policies and control frameworks; 
–
to both partner and challenge our businesses in defining, 
implementing and continually re-evaluating our risk appetite under 
actual and scenario conditions; and
–
to ensure there is independent, expert scrutiny of credit risks, their 
costs and their mitigation.
Key risk management processes
IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ process
The IFRS 9 process comprises three main areas: modelling, data and 
forward economic guidance; implementation; and governance.
Modelling, data and forward economic guidance
We have established IFRS 9 modelling and data processes in various 
geographies, which are subject to internal model risk governance 
including independent review of significant model developments.
We have a centralised process for generating unbiased and 
independent global economic scenarios. Scenarios are subject to a 
process of review and challenge by a dedicated central team and 
individually for each region. Each quarter, the scenarios and probability 
weights are reviewed and checked for consistency with the economic 
conjuncture and current economic and financial risks. These are 
subject to final review and approval by senior management in a 
forward economic guidance global business impairment committee.
Implementation
A centralised impairment engine performs the expected credit losses 
calculation using data, which is subject to a number of validation 
checks and enhancements, from a variety of client, finance and risk 
systems. Where possible, these checks and processes are performed 
in a globally consistent and centralised manner.
Governance
Regional management review forums are established in key sites and 
regions in order to review and approve the impairment results. 
Regional management review forums have representatives from 
Credit Risk and Finance. The key site and regional approvals are 
reported up to the relevant global business impairment committee for 
final approval of the Group’s ECL for the period. Required members of 
the committee are the Wholesale Global Chief Corporate Credit 
Officer and Chief Risk and Compliance Officer for Wealth and 
Personal Banking Risk, as well as the relevant global business’s Chief 
Financial Officer and the Global Financial Controller.
Concentration of exposure
(Audited)
Concentrations of credit risk arise when a number of counterparties or 
exposures have comparable economic characteristics, or such 
counterparties are engaged in similar activities or operate in the same 
geographical areas or industry sectors so that their collective ability to 
meet contractual obligations is similarly affected by changes in 
economic, political or other conditions. We use a number of controls 
and measures to minimise undue concentration of exposure in our 
portfolios across industries, countries and global businesses. These 
include portfolio and counterparty limits, approval and review controls, 
and stress testing.
Credit quality of financial instruments
(Audited)
Our risk rating system facilitates the internal ratings-based approach 
under the Basel framework adopted by the Group to support the 
calculation of our minimum credit regulatory capital requirement. The 
five credit quality classifications encompass a range of granular 
internal credit rating grades assigned to wholesale and retail 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
139
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

customers, and the external ratings attributed by external agencies to 
debt securities.
For debt securities and certain other financial instruments, external 
ratings have been aligned to the five quality classifications based upon 
the mapping of related customer risk rating (‘CRR’) to external credit 
rating.
Wholesale lending
The CRR 10-grade scale summarises a more granular underlying 
23-grade scale of obligor probability of default (‘PD’). All corporate 
customers are rated using the 10- or 23-grade scale, depending on 
the degree of sophistication of the Basel approach adopted for the 
exposure.
Each CRR band is associated with an external rating grade by reference 
to long-run default rates for that grade, represented by the average of 
issuer-weighted historical default rates. This mapping between internal 
and external ratings is indicative and may vary over time.
Retail lending
Retail lending credit quality is based on a 12-month point-in-time 
probability-weighted PD.
Credit quality classification
Sovereign 
debt securities
and bills
Other 
debt securities
and bills
Wholesale lending
and derivatives
Retail lending
External 
credit rating
External 
credit rating
Internal 
credit rating
12-month Basel 
probability of 
default %
Internal 
credit rating
12 month 
probabilityweighted PD %
Quality classification1,2
Strong
BBB and above
A- and above
CRR 1 to CRR 2
0–0.169
Band 1 and 2
0.000–0.500
Good
BBB- to BB
BBB+ to BBBCRR 3
0.170–0.740
Band 3
0.501–1.500
Satisfactory
BB- to B and unrated
BB+ to B and unrated
CRR 4 to CRR 5
0.741–4.914
Band 4 and 5
1.501–20.000
Sub-standard
B- to C
B- to C
CRR 6 to CRR 8
4.915–99.999
Band 6
20.001–99.999
Credit impaired
Default
Default
CRR 9 to CRR 10
100
Band 7
100
1 Customer risk rating (‘CRR’).
2 12-month point-in-time probability-weighted probability of default (‘PD’).
Quality classification definitions
– ‘Strong’ exposures demonstrate a strong capacity to meet financial commitments, with negligible or low probability of default and/or low levels of 
expected loss.
– ‘Good’ exposures require closer monitoring and demonstrate a good capacity to meet financial commitments, with low default risk.
– ‘Satisfactory’ exposures require closer monitoring and demonstrate an average-to-fair capacity to meet financial commitments, with moderate default risk.
– ‘Sub-standard’ exposures require varying degrees of special attention and default risk is of greater concern.
– ‘Credit-impaired’ exposures have been assessed as described in Note 1.2(i) to the financial statements.
Forborne loans and advances
(Audited)
Forbearance measures consist of concessions towards an obligor that 
is experiencing or about to experience difficulties in meeting its 
financial commitments.
We continue to class loans as forborne when we modify the 
contractual payment terms due to having concerns about the 
borrowers’ ability to meet contractual payments when they were due. 
Our definition of forborne captures non-payment-related concessions, 
such as covenant waivers.
 For details of our policy on forbearance, see Note 1.2(i) in the financial 
statements.
Credit quality of forborne loans
For wholesale lending, where payment-related forbearance measures 
result in a diminished financial obligation, or if there are other 
indicators of impairment, the loan will be classified as credit impaired 
if it is not already so classified. All facilities with a customer, including 
loans that have not been modified, are considered credit impaired 
following the identification of a payment-related forborne loan. For 
retail lending, where a material payment-related concession has been 
granted, the loan will be classified as credit impaired. In isolation, nonpayment related forbearance measures may not result in the loan 
being classified as credit impaired unless combined with other 
indicators of credit impairment. These are classed as performing 
forborne loans for both wholesale and retail lending.
Wholesale and retail lending forborne loans are classified as credit 
impaired until there is sufficient evidence to demonstrate a significant 
reduction in the risk of non-payment of future cash flows, observed 
over a minimum one-year period, and there are no other indicators of 
impairment. Any forborne loans not considered credit impaired will 
remain forborne for a minimum of two years from the date that credit 
impairment no longer applies. For wholesale and retail lending, any 
forbearance measures granted on a loan already classed as forborne 
results in the customer being classed as credit impaired. 
Forborne loans and recognition of expected 
credit losses
(Audited)
Forborne loans expected credit loss assessments reflect the higher 
rates of losses typically experienced with these types of loans such 
that they are in stage 2 and stage 3. The higher rates are more 
pronounced in unsecured retail lending requiring further 
segmentation. For wholesale lending, forborne loans are typically 
assessed individually. Credit risk ratings are intrinsic to the 
impairment assessments. The individual impairment assessment 
takes into account the higher risk of the future non-payment inherent 
in forborne loans.
Impairment assessment
(Audited)
For details of our impairment policies on loans and advances and 
financial investments, see Note 1.2(i) on the financial statements.
Risk review
140
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Write-off of loans and advances
(Audited)
Under IFRS 9, write-off should occur when there is no reasonable 
expectation of recovering further cash flows from the financial asset.
This principle does not prohibit early write-off, which is defined in 
local policies to ensure effectiveness in the management of 
customers in the collections process.
Unsecured personal facilities, including credit cards, are generally 
written off at between 150 and 210 days past due. The standard 
period runs until the end of the month in which the account becomes 
180 days contractually delinquent. However, in exceptional 
circumstances, to avoid unfair customer outcomes, deliver customer 
duty or meet regulatory expectations, the period may be extended 
further. 
For secured facilities, write-off should occur upon repossession of 
collateral, receipt of proceeds via settlement, or determination that 
recovery of the collateral will not be pursued. Where these assets are 
maintained on the balance sheet beyond 60 months of consecutive 
delinquency-driven default, the prospect of recovery is reassessed. 
Recovery activity, on both secured and unsecured assets, may 
continue after write-off.
Any unsecured exposures that are not written off at 180 days past 
due, and any secured exposures that are in ‘default’ status for 60 
months or greater but are not written off, are subject to additional 
monitoring via the appropriate governance forums.
Credit risk in 2024
At 31 December 2024, gross loans and advances to banks and 
customers of $1,042bn decreased by $20.1bn on a reported basis 
compared with 31 December 2023. Gross loans and advances to 
customers decreased by $9.2bn while gross loans and advances to 
banks decreased by $10.9bn. This included total adverse foreign 
exchange movements of $26.2bn. 
On a constant currency basis, the increase of $6.1bn was driven by a 
$9.6bn rise in personal loans and advances to customers and a $3.0bn 
rise in wholesale loans and advances to customers. These were partly 
offset by a $6.5bn decrease in loans and advances to banks.
The rise in personal loans and advances to customers was driven by 
mortgage growth (up $7.5bn), mainly in HSBC UK (up $4.5bn), in our 
legal entities in the US (up $2.7bn) and in Mexico (up $0.3bn). There 
was a further increase in other personal lending (up $2.1bn), mainly in 
our entities in Europe (up $1.1bn) and in Asia (up $1.0bn).
The rise in wholesale loans and advances to customers was driven by 
an increase in balances with non-bank financial institutions (up 
$9.6bn), mainly in HSBC Bank plc (up $4.2bn) and in our legal entities 
in Asia (up $2.2bn), in the US (up $1.2bn), in HSBC UK (up $1.0bn) 
and in the Middle East (up $0.8bn). This was partly offset by a $6.6bn 
reduction in corporate and commercial balances, observed mainly in 
our legal entities in the US (down $2.9bn) and in Asia (down $2.4bn). 
The decrease in loans and advances to banks was driven by lower 
central bank balances and money market lending balances in our legal 
entities in Asia (down $9.1bn), partly offset by higher balances in our 
legal entities in the Middle East (up $3.6bn).
The movement in gross loans and advances to banks and customers 
included a $3.1bn decrease on a constant currency basis due to the 
reclassification of businesses into 'assets held for sale' during the 
period.
At 31 December 2024, the allowance for ECL of $10.3bn decreased 
by $1.7bn compared with 31 December 2023, including favourable 
foreign exchange movements of $0.5bn. The $10.3bn allowance 
comprised $9.8bn in respect of assets held at amortised cost, $0.4bn 
in respect of loan commitments and financial guarantees, and $0.1bn 
in respect of debt instruments measured at fair value through other 
comprehensive income (‘FVOCI’).
On a constant currency basis, stage 3 gross loans and advances to 
customers at 31 December 2024 increased by $3.9bn. The increase in 
stage 3 exposures was driven by defaults in the commercial real 
estate portfolio in Hong Kong, which are generally well collateralised. 
There was a decrease in the associated allowance for ECL due to 
write-offs of heavily-impaired exposures.
On a constant currency basis, the allowance for ECL in relation to 
loans and advances to customers decreased by $0.9bn from 
31 December 2023. This was attributable to:
–
a $0.8bn decrease in wholesale loans and advances to customers, 
which included a $0.7bn decrease in stage 3 and a $0.1bn 
decrease in stages 1 and 2; and
–
a $0.1bn decrease in personal loans and advances to customers 
driven by stages 1 and 2.
The ECL charge for 2024 was $3.4bn, inclusive of recoveries. The 
ECL charge comprised: $2.1bn in respect of wholesale lending, of 
which the stage 3 charge was $1.6bn; $1.2bn in respect of personal 
lending, of which $0.9bn were in stage 3; and $0.1bn in respect of 
other assets and debt instruments measured at FVOCI.
Wholesale lending charges were recognised mainly in our legal 
entities in Hong Kong ($1.0bn). While the mainland China commercial 
real estate sector remained subdued, there were limited new defaults 
and lower total ECL charges of $0.4bn during the period ($1.0bn 
during 2023). ECL charges in the Hong Kong commercial real estate 
sector excluding exposure to mainland China borrowers of $0.1bn 
during the period were also low due to the limited impact from 
defaults, driven by the high level of collateralisation in the portfolio.
Personal lending charges reflected higher charges in our legal entity in 
Mexico, mainly in our unsecured portfolio, due to portfolio growth and 
unemployment trends. In addition, there were higher charges in our 
legal entities in the UK and Hong Kong as a result of portfolio growth.
At 31 December 2024, gross other financial assets measured at 
amortised cost of $828.6bn decreased by $131.7bn on a reported 
basis compared with 31 December 2023. This included total adverse 
foreign exchange movements of $30.7bn. 
On a constant currency basis, the decrease of $101.0bn was mainly 
driven by a $91.9bn decrease in assets held for sale, due to the 
completion of the disposals of our banking business in Canada and 
our retail banking operations in France.
Income statement movements are analysed further on page 90.
While credit risk arises across most of our balance sheet, ECL have 
typically been recognised on loans and advances to customers and 
banks, in addition to securitisation exposures and other structured 
products. As a result, our disclosures focus primarily on these two 
areas. For further details of:
–
maximum exposure to credit risk, see page 148;
–
measurement uncertainty and sensitivity analysis of ECL 
estimates, see page 148;
–
reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and 
allowances for loans and advances to banks and customers including 
loan commitments and financial guarantees, see page 161;
–
credit quality, see page 166;
–
total wholesale lending for loans and advances to banks and 
customers by stage distribution, see page 171;
–
wholesale lending collateral, see page 181;
–
total personal lending for loans and advances to customers at 
amortised cost by stage distribution, see page 185; and
–
personal lending collateral, see page 194.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
141
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Summary of credit risk
The following disclosure presents the gross carrying/nominal amount of financial instruments to which the impairment requirements in IFRS 9 
are applied and the associated allowance for ECL.
Summary of financial instruments to which the impairment requirements in IFRS 9 are applied
(Audited)
31 Dec 2024
 At 31 Dec 2023
Gross carrying/
nominal amount
Allowance for
ECL1
Gross carrying/
nominal amount
Allowance for 
ECL1
$m
$m
$m
$m
Loans and advances to customers at amortised cost
 
940,373 
(9,715) 
949,609 
(11,074) 
Loans and advances to banks at amortised cost
 
102,052 
(13) 
112,917 
(15) 
Other financial assets measured at amortised cost
 
828,580 
(92) 
960,271 
(422) 
– cash and balances at central banks
 
267,674 
— 
285,868 
— 
– Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness
 
42,293 
— 
42,024 
— 
– reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
 
252,549 
— 
252,217 
— 
– financial investments 
 
153,982 
(9) 
148,346 
(20) 
– assets held for sale2
 
3,273 
(4) 
103,186 
(324) 
– prepayments, accrued income and other assets3
 
108,809 
(79) 
128,630 
(78) 
Total gross carrying amount on-balance sheet
 
1,871,005 
(9,820) 
2,022,797 
(11,511) 
Loans and other credit-related commitments
 
619,367 
(348) 
661,015 
(367) 
Financial guarantees
 
16,998 
(29) 
17,009 
(39) 
Total nominal amount off-balance sheet4
 
636,365 
(377) 
678,024 
(406) 
 
2,507,370 
(10,197) 
2,700,821 
(11,917) 
Fair value
Memorandum 
allowance for 
ECL5
Fair value
Memorandum 
allowance for 
ECL5
$m
$m
$m
$m
Debt instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 
(‘FVOCI’)
 
346,124 
(54) 
302,348 
(97) 
1 The total ECL is recognised in the loss allowance for the financial asset unless the total ECL exceeds the gross carrying amount of the financial asset, in which 
case the ECL is recognised as a provision.
2 For further details on gross carrying amounts and allowances for ECL related to assets held for sale, see ‘Assets held for sale’ on page 146. At 31 December 
2024, the gross carrying amount comprised $1,113m of loans and advances to customers and banks (2023: $84,075m) and $2,160m of other financial assets at 
amortised cost (2023: $19,111m). The corresponding allowance for ECL comprised $4m of loans and advances to customers and banks (2023: $303m) and 
$0.3m of other financial assets at amortised cost (2023: $21m).
3 Includes only those financial instruments that are subject to the impairment requirements of IFRS 9. ‘Prepayments, accrued income and other assets’ as 
presented within the consolidated balance sheet on page 343 comprises both financial and non-financial assets, including cash collateral and settlement 
accounts. It also includes ‘Items in the course of collection from other banks’ which was presented separately in 2023.
4 Represents the maximum amount at risk should the contracts be fully drawn upon and clients default.
5 Debt instruments measured at FVOCI continue to be measured at fair value with the allowance for ECL as a memorandum item. Change in ECL is recognised in 
‘Change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges’ in the income statement.
The following table provides an overview of the Group’s credit risk by stage and industry, and the associated ECL coverage. The financial assets 
recorded in each stage have the following characteristics:
–
Stage 1: These financial assets are unimpaired and without significant increase in credit risk on which a 12-month allowance for ECL is 
recognised.
–
Stage 2: A significant increase in credit risk has been experienced on these financial assets since initial recognition for which a lifetime ECL is 
recognised.
–
Stage 3: There is objective evidence of impairment and the financial assets are therefore considered to be in default or otherwise credit 
impaired on which a lifetime ECL is recognised.
–
POCI: Financial assets that are purchased or originated at a deep discount are seen to reflect the incurred credit losses on which a lifetime 
ECL is recognised.
Risk review
142
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Summary of credit risk (excluding debt instruments measured at FVOCI) by stage distribution and ECL coverage by industry sector at 
31 December 2024
(Audited)
Gross carrying/nominal amount1
Allowance for ECL
ECL coverage %
Stage 
1
Stage 
2
Stage 
3 POCI2
Total
Stage 
1
Stage 
2
Stage 
3
POCI2
Total
Stage 
1
Stage 
2
Stage 
3
POCI2
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
%
%
%
%
%
Loans and 
advances to 
customers at 
amortised cost
 824,420 
93,248 22,615 
90 940,373 (1,078) (2,546) (6,040) 
(51) (9,715) 
 
0.1 
 
2.7 
 
26.7 
 
56.7 
 
1.0 
– personal
 403,746 
39,919 
3,560 
— 447,225 
(570) (1,158) 
(796) 
— (2,524) 
 
0.1 
 
2.9 
 
22.4 
 
— 
 
0.6 
– corporate and 
commercial
 340,987 
51,231 18,376 
90 410,684 
(463) (1,358) (4,883) 
(51) (6,755) 
 
0.1 
 
2.7 
 
26.6 
 
56.7 
 
1.6 
– non-bank 
financial 
institutions
 
79,687 
2,098 
679 
— 
82,464 
(45) 
(30) 
(361) 
— 
(436) 
 
0.1 
 
1.4 
 
53.2 
 
— 
 
0.5 
Loans and 
advances to 
banks at 
amortised cost
 101,852 
198 
2 
— 102,052 
(9) 
(2) 
(2) 
— 
(13) 
 
— 
 
1.0 
 
100.0 
 
— 
 
— 
Other financial 
assets 
measured at 
amortised cost
 826,621 
1,806 
153 
— 828,580 
(64) 
(5) 
(23) 
— 
(92) 
 
— 
 
0.3 
 
15.0 
 
— 
 
— 
Loan and other 
credit-related 
commitments
 597,231 
21,175 
958 
3 619,367 
(137) 
(121) 
(90) 
— 
(348) 
 
— 
 
0.6 
 
9.4 
 
— 
 
0.1 
– personal
 251,489 
1,680 
86 
— 253,255 
(17) 
— 
(5) 
— 
(22) 
 
— 
 
— 
 
5.8 
 
— 
 
— 
– corporate and 
commercial
 231,201 
17,453 
838 
3 249,495 
(111) 
(116) 
(83) 
— 
(310) 
 
— 
 
0.7 
 
9.9 
 
— 
 
0.1 
– financial
 114,541 
2,042 
34 
— 116,617 
(9) 
(5) 
(2) 
— 
(16) 
 
— 
 
0.2 
 
5.9 
 
— 
 
— 
Financial 
guarantees
 
15,353 
1,397 
248 
— 
16,998 
(8) 
(5) 
(16) 
— 
(29) 
 
0.1 
 
0.4 
 
6.5 
 
— 
 
0.2 
– personal
 
1,416 
11 
— 
— 
1,427 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
– corporate and 
commercial
 
10,048 
1,232 
195 
— 
11,475 
(7) 
(5) 
(15) 
— 
(27) 
 
0.1 
 
0.4 
 
7.7 
 
— 
 
0.2 
– financial
 
3,889 
154 
53 
— 
4,096 
(1) 
— 
(1) 
— 
(2) 
 
— 
 
— 
 
1.9 
 
— 
 
— 
At 31 Dec 
2024
 
2,365,477 117,824 23,976 
93 
2,507,370 (1,296) (2,679) (6,171) 
(51) 
(10,197) 
 
0.1 
 
2.3 
 
25.7 
 
54.8 
 
0.4 
1 Represents the maximum amount at risk should the contracts be fully drawn upon and clients default.
2 Purchased or originated credit-impaired (‘POCI’).
Unless identified at an earlier stage, all financial assets are deemed to 
have suffered a significant increase in credit risk when they are 30 
days past due (‘DPD’) and are transferred from stage 1 to stage 2. 
The following disclosure presents the ageing of stage 2 financial 
assets by those less than 30 DPD and greater than 30 DPD and 
therefore presents those financial assets classified as stage 2 due to 
ageing (30 DPD) and those identified at an earlier stage (less than 30 
DPD).
Stage 2 days past due analysis at 31 December 2024
(Audited)
Gross carrying amount
Allowance for ECL
ECL coverage %
Stage 2
Up-todate
1 to 29 
DPD1
30 and 
> DPD1
Stage 2
Up-todate
1 to 29 
DPD1
30 and 
> DPD1
Stage 2
Up-todate
1 to 29 
DPD1
30 and 
> DPD1
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
%
%
%
%
Loans and advances to 
customers at amortised 
cost
 
93,248 
90,157 
1,888 
1,203 
(2,546) 
(2,147) 
(192) 
(207) 
 
2.7 
 
2.4 
 
10.2 
 
17.2 
– personal
 
39,919 
37,676 
1,361 
882 
(1,158) 
(799) 
(169) 
(190) 
 
2.9 
 
2.1 
 
12.4 
 
21.5 
– corporate and 
commercial
 
51,231 
50,486 
506 
239 
(1,358) 
(1,326) 
(21) 
(11) 
 
2.7 
 
2.6 
 
4.2 
 
4.6 
– non-bank financial 
institutions
 
2,098 
1,995 
21 
82 
(30) 
(22) 
(2) 
(6) 
 
1.4 
 
1.1 
 
9.5 
 
7.3 
Loans and advances to 
banks at amortised cost
 
198 
198 
— 
— 
(2) 
(2) 
— 
— 
 
1.0 
 
1.0 
 
— 
 
— 
Other financial assets 
measured at amortised 
cost
 
1,806 
1,794 
3 
9 
(5) 
(5) 
— 
— 
 
0.3 
 
0.3 
 
— 
 
— 
1 The days past due amounts presented above are on a contractual basis.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
143
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Summary of credit risk (excluding debt instruments measured at FVOCI) by stage distribution and ECL coverage by industry sector at 
31 December 2023
(Audited)
Gross carrying/nominal amount1
Allowance for ECL
ECL coverage %
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
POCI2
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
POCI2
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
POCI2
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
%
%
%
%
%
Loans and 
advances to 
customers at 
amortised 
cost
 809,384 120,871 19,273 
81 949,609 (1,130) (2,964) (6,950) 
(30) (11,074) 
 
0.1 
 
2.5 
 
36.1 
 
37.0 
 
1.2 
– personal
 396,534 47,483 
3,505 
— 447,522 
(579) (1,434) 
(854) 
— (2,867) 
 
0.1 
 
3.0 
 
24.4 
 
— 
 
0.6 
– corporate 
and 
commercial
 342,878 69,738 14,958 
81 427,655 
(499) (1,500) (5,774) 
(30) (7,803) 
 
0.1 
 
2.2 
 
38.6 
 
37.0 
 
1.8 
– non-bank 
financial 
institutions
 
69,972 
3,650 
810 
— 
74,432 
(52) 
(30) 
(322) 
— 
(404) 
 
0.1 
 
0.8 
 
39.8 
 
— 
 
0.5 
Loans and 
advances to 
banks at 
amortised 
cost
 111,479 
1,436 
2 
— 112,917 
(10) 
(3) 
(2) 
— 
(15) 
 
— 
 
0.2 
 
100.0 
 
— 
 
— 
Other 
financial 
assets 
measured at 
amortised 
cost
 946,873 12,734 
664 
— 960,271 
(109) 
(132) 
(181) 
— 
(422) 
 
— 
 
1.0 
 
27.3 
 
— 
 
— 
Loan and 
other creditrelated 
commitments
 630,949 28,922 
1,140 
4 661,015 
(153) 
(128) 
(86) 
— 
(367) 
 
— 
 
0.4 
 
7.5 
 
— 
 
0.1 
– personal
 253,183 
3,459 
355 
— 256,997 
(23) 
— 
(2) 
— 
(25) 
 
— 
 
— 
 
0.6 
 
— 
 
— 
– corporate 
and 
commercial
 246,210 20,928 
736 
4 267,878 
(120) 
(119) 
(83) 
— 
(322) 
 
— 
 
0.6 
 
11.3 
 
— 
 
0.1 
– financial
 131,556 
4,535 
49 
— 136,140 
(10) 
(9) 
(1) 
— 
(20) 
 
— 
 
0.2 
 
2.0 
 
— 
 
— 
Financial 
guarantees
 
14,746 
1,879 
384 
— 
17,009 
(7) 
(7) 
(25) 
— 
(39) 
 
— 
 
0.4 
 
6.5 
 
— 
 
0.2 
– personal
 
1,106 
13 
— 
— 
1,119 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
– corporate 
and 
commercial
 
10,157 
1,290 
330 
— 
11,777 
(6) 
(6) 
(24) 
— 
(36) 
 
0.1 
 
0.5 
 
7.3 
 
— 
 
0.3 
– financial
 
3,483 
576 
54 
— 
4,113 
(1) 
(1) 
(1) 
— 
(3) 
 
— 
 
0.2 
 
1.9 
 
— 
 
0.1 
At 31 Dec 
2023
 
2,513,431 165,842 21,463 
85 
2,700,821 (1,409) (3,234) (7,244) 
(30) (11,917) 
 
0.1 
 
2.0 
 
33.8 
 
35.3 
 
0.4 
1 Represents the maximum amount at risk should the contracts be fully drawn upon and clients default.
2 Purchased or originated credit-impaired (‘POCI’).
Stage 2 days past due analysis at 31 December 2023
(Audited)
Gross carrying amount
Allowance for ECL
ECL coverage %
Stage 2
Up-todate
1 to 29 
DPD1 30 and > 
DPD1
Stage 
2
Up-todate
1 to 29 
DPD1 30 and > 
DPD1
 Stage 
2
Up-todate
1 to 29 
DPD1 30 and > 
DPD1
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
%
%
%
%
Loans and advances to 
customers at amortised cost
 120,871 116,320 
2,571 
1,980 (2,964) 
(2,458) 
(245) 
(261) 
 
2.5 
 
2.1 
 
9.5 
 
13.2 
– personal
 
47,483 
44,634 
1,785 
1,064 (1,434) 
(974) 
(214) 
(246) 
 
3.0 
 
2.2 
 
12.0 
 
23.1 
– corporate and commercial
 
69,738 
68,446 
697 
595 (1,500) 
(1,454) 
(31) 
(15) 
 
2.2 
 
2.1 
 
4.4 
 
2.5 
– non-bank financial 
institutions
 
3,650 
3,240 
89 
321 
(30) 
(30) 
— 
— 
 
0.8 
 
0.9 
 
— 
 
— 
Loans and advances to banks 
at amortised cost
 
1,436 
1,424 
— 
12 
(3) 
(3) 
— 
— 
 
0.2 
 
0.2 
 
— 
 
— 
Other financial assets 
measured at amortised cost
 
12,734 
12,417 
171 
146 
(132) 
(113) 
(9) 
(10) 
 
1.0 
 
0.9 
 
5.3 
 
6.8 
1 The days past due amounts presented above are on a contractual basis.
Risk review
144
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Stage 2 decomposition 
The following table presents the stage 2 decomposition of gross 
carrying amount and allowances for ECL for loans and advances to 
customers and banks. It also sets out the reasons why an exposure is 
classified as stage 2 and therefore presented as a significant increase 
in credit risk at 31 December 2024.
The quantitative classification shows gross carrying amount and 
allowances for ECL for which the applicable reporting date probability 
of default (‘PD’) measure exceeds defined quantitative thresholds for 
retail and wholesale exposures, as set out in Note 1.2 ‘Summary of 
material accounting policies’, on page 359.
The qualitative classification primarily accounts for customer risk 
rating (‘CRR’) deterioration, watch-and-worry and retail management 
judgemental adjustments.
 A summary of our current policies and practices for the significant increase 
in credit risk is set out in ‘Summary of material accounting policies’ on 
page 359. 
Loans and advances to customers and banks1
At 31 Dec 2024
Loans and advances to customers
Loans and 
advances 
to banks at 
amortised 
cost Total stage 2
Personal
of which:
Corporate 
and 
commercial
Non-bank 
financial 
institutions
first lien 
mortgages credit cards
other 
personal 
lending
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Quantitative
 
36,356 
30,992 
2,904 
2,460 
37,787 
1,658 
176 
75,977 
Qualitative
 
3,452 
3,107 
85 
260 
13,327 
438 
22 
17,239 
of which: forbearance
 
175 
70 
40 
65 
1,086 
3 
— 
1,264 
30 DPD backstop2
 
111 
78 
2 
31 
117 
2 
— 
230 
Total gross carrying amount
 
39,919 
34,177 
2,991 
2,751 
51,231 
2,098 
198 
93,446 
Quantitative
 
(1,118) 
(121) 
(651) 
(346) 
(1,124) 
(28) 
— 
(2,270) 
Qualitative
 
(35) 
(8) 
(9) 
(18) 
(229) 
(2) 
(2) 
(268) 
of which: forbearance
 
(5) 
— 
(1) 
(4) 
(12) 
— 
— 
(17) 
30 DPD backstop2
 
(5) 
(1) 
— 
(4) 
(5) 
— 
— 
(10) 
Total allowance for ECL
 
(1,158) 
(130) 
(660) 
(368) 
(1,358) 
(30) 
(2) 
(2,548) 
ECL coverage %
2.9
0.4
22.1
13.4
2.7
1.4
1.0
2.7
Residual average life3 (in years)
 
17.0 
19.5 
<1.0 
3.6 
2.7 
1.9 
<1.0
 
At 31 Dec 2023
Quantitative
 
35,742 
31,178 
1,940 
2,624 
53,034 
2,955 
781 
92,512 
Qualitative
 
11,678 
7,077 
2,477 
2,124 
16,241 
653 
642 
29,214 
of which: forbearance
 
171 
69 
34 
68 
982 
2 
— 
1,155 
30 DPD backstop2
 
63 
32 
2 
29 
463 
42 
13 
581 
Total gross carrying amount
 
47,483 
38,287 
4,419 
4,777 
69,738 
3,650 
1,436 
122,307 
Quantitative
 
(1,103) 
(149) 
(554) 
(400) 
(1,225) 
(24) 
(1) 
(2,353) 
Qualitative
 
(324) 
(50) 
(142) 
(132) 
(270) 
(6) 
(2) 
(602) 
of which: forbearance
 
(4) 
— 
(1) 
(3) 
(11) 
— 
— 
(15) 
30 DPD backstop2
 
(7) 
(1) 
(1) 
(5) 
(5) 
— 
— 
(12) 
Total allowance for ECL
 
(1,434) 
(200) 
(697) 
(537) 
(1,500) 
(30) 
(3) 
(2,967) 
ECL coverage %
 
3.0 
 
0.5 
 
15.8 
 
11.2 
 
2.2 
 
0.8 
 
0.2 
 
2.4 
Residual average life3 (in years)
16.0
19.3
<1.0
4.1
2.5
1.2
<1.0
1 Where balances satisfy more than one of the above three criteria for determining a significant increase in credit risk, the corresponding gross carrying amount 
and allowance for ECL have been assigned in order of categories presented.
2 Days past due (‘DPD’).
3 Calculated as the difference between final contractual maturities and the reporting date, weighted based on the contribution of the instrument to the stage 2 
total gross carrying amount of the corresponding product or sector. 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
145
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Assets held for sale
(Audited)
At 31 December 2024, the most material balances held for sale arose 
from our business in South Africa and our private banking business in 
Germany.
Disclosures relating to assets held for sale are provided in the 
following credit risk tables, primarily where the disclosure is relevant 
to the measurement of these financial assets:
–
‘Maximum exposure to credit risk’ (page 148); and
–
‘Distribution of financial instruments by credit quality at 
31 December’ (page 166);
 
Although there was a reclassification on the balance sheet, there was 
no separate income statement reclassification. As a result, charges 
for changes in expected credit losses and other credit impairment 
charges shown in the credit risk disclosures include charges relating 
to financial assets classified as ‘assets held for sale’.
‘Loans and other credit-related commitments’, ‘financial guarantees’ 
and ‘Debt instruments measured at fair value through other 
comprehensive income’ as reported in credit disclosures, also include 
exposures and allowances relating to financial assets classified as 
‘assets held for sale’.
 
Loans and advances to customers and banks measured at amortised cost
(Audited)
2024
2023
Total gross loans 
and advances
Allowance 
for ECL
Total gross loans 
and advances
Allowance 
for ECL
$m
$m
$m
$m
As reported
 
1,042,425 
(9,728) 
1,062,526 
(11,089) 
Reported in ‘Assets held for sale’
 
1,113 
(4) 
84,075 
(303) 
At 31 December
 
1,043,538 
(9,732) 
1,146,601 
(11,392) 
At 31 December 2024, gross loans and advances of our business in 
South Africa were $660m and the related allowance for ECL was 
$4m. Gross loans and advances of our private banking business in 
Germany were $309m and of our French life insurance business were 
$144m, both with negligible allowance for ECL.
Lending balances held for sale continue to be measured at amortised 
cost less allowances for impairment and, therefore, such carrying 
amounts may differ from fair value. 
These lending balances are part of associated disposal groups that are 
measured in their entirety at the lower of carrying amount and fair 
value less costs to sell. Any difference between the carrying amount 
of these assets and their sales price is part of the overall gain or loss 
on the associated disposal group as a whole.
For further details of the carrying amount and the fair value at 31 December 
2024 of loans and advances to banks and customers classified as held for 
sale, see Note 23 on the financial statements.
 
Gross loans and allowance for ECL on loans and advances to customers and banks reported in ‘Assets held for sale’
(Audited)
South Africa
German Private Banking 
Business
Other
Total
Gross 
carrying 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Loans and advances to customers 
at amortised cost
 
660 
(4) 
309 
— 
— 
— 
969 
(4) 
– personal
 
— 
— 
130 
— 
— 
— 
130 
— 
– corporate and commercial
 
586 
(4) 
19 
— 
— 
— 
605 
(4) 
– non-bank financial institutions
 
74 
— 
160 
— 
— 
— 
234 
— 
Loans and advances to banks at 
amortised cost
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
144 
— 
144 
— 
At 31 Dec 20241
 
660 
(4) 
309 
— 
144 
— 
1,113 
(4) 
Banking business in 
Canada
Retail banking operations in 
France
Other
Total
Gross 
carrying 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Loans and advances to customers 
at amortised cost
 
56,349 
(220) 
16,984 
(82) 
255 
(1) 
73,588 
(303) 
– personal
 
27,071 
(95) 
13,920 
(79) 
140 
(1) 
41,131 
(175) 
– corporate and commercial
 
27,789 
(120) 
3,012 
(3) 
— 
— 
30,801 
(123) 
– non-bank financial institutions
 
1,489 
(5) 
52 
— 
115 
— 
1,656 
(5) 
Loans and advances to banks at 
amortised cost
 
154 
— 
10,333 
— 
— 
— 
10,487 
— 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
56,503 
(220) 
27,317 
(82) 
255 
(1) 
84,075 
(303) 
1 The table above does not include disposals completed during 2024 including the sale of our retail banking operations in France completed on 1 January 2024 and 
our banking business in Canada completed on 28 March 2024. The sale of our business in Argentina was announced in the first quarter of 2024 and completed 
on 6 December 2024. The gross loans and advances to customers and banks in Argentina were $1,760m and the associated allowance for ECL was $34m at 
31 March 2024. For more details, please refer to business disposals as disclosed in Note 23 on page 411.
Risk review
146
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The table below analyses the amount of ECL (charges)/releases arising from assets held for sale. The charges during the period relate to our 
businesses in Canada ($41m) and in Argentina ($40m).
Changes in expected credit losses and other credit impairment
(Audited)
2024
2023
$m
$m
ECL (charges)/releases arising from:
– assets held for sale
 
(81) 
(49) 
– assets not held for sale
 
(3,333) 
(3,398) 
Year ended 31 Dec
 
(3,414) 
(3,447) 
Credit exposure
Maximum exposure to credit risk 
(Audited)
This section provides information on balance sheet items and their offsets as well as loan and other credit-related commitments. Commentary 
on consolidated balance sheet movements in 2024 is provided on page 95.
 
‘Maximum exposure to credit risk’ table 
The following table presents our maximum exposure before taking 
account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements (unless 
such enhancements meet accounting offsetting requirements).
The table excludes trading assets, financial assets designated and 
otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss, 
and financial investments measured at fair value through other 
comprehensive income as their carrying amount best represents the 
net exposure to credit risk. Equity securities are also excluded as 
they are not subject to credit risk. 
For the financial assets recognised on the balance sheet, the 
maximum exposure to credit risk equals their carrying amount and is 
net of the allowance for ECL. For financial guarantees and other 
guarantees granted, it is the maximum amount that we would have 
to pay if the guarantees were called upon. For loan commitments 
and other credit-related commitments, it is generally the full amount 
of the committed facilities.
The offset in the table relates to amounts where there is a legally 
enforceable right of offset in the event of counterparty default and 
where, as a result, there is a net exposure for credit risk purposes. 
However, as there is no intention to settle these balances on a net 
basis under normal circumstances, they do not qualify for net 
presentation for accounting purposes. No offset has been applied to 
off-balance sheet collateral. In the case of derivatives, the offset 
column also includes collateral received in cash and other financial 
assets.
Other credit risk mitigants
While not disclosed as an offset in the following ‘Maximum exposure 
to credit risk’ table, other arrangements are in place that reduce our 
maximum exposure to credit risk. These include a charge over 
collateral on borrowers’ specific assets, such as residential properties, 
collateral held in the form of financial instruments that are not held on 
the balance sheet and short positions in securities. In addition, for 
financial assets held as part of linked insurance/investment contracts 
the credit risk is predominantly borne by the policyholder. See page 
358 and Note 31 on the financial statements for further details of 
collateral in respect of certain loans and advances and derivatives.
Collateral available to mitigate credit risk is disclosed in the ‘Collateral’ 
section on page 181.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
147
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Maximum exposure to credit risk
(Audited)
2024
2023
Maximum exposure
Offset
Net
Maximum exposure
Offset
Net
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Loans and advances to customers held at amortised cost
 
930,658 
(22,822) 
907,836 
938,535 
(22,607) 
915,928 
– personal
 
444,701 
(2,256) 
442,445 
444,655 
(2,470) 
442,185 
– corporate and commercial
 
403,929 
(18,897) 
385,032 
419,852 
(18,771) 
401,081 
– non-bank financial institutions
 
82,028 
(1,669) 
80,359 
74,028 
(1,366) 
72,662 
Loans and advances to banks at amortised cost
 
102,039 
— 
102,039 
112,902 
— 
112,902 
Other financial assets held at amortised cost
 
854,427 
(4,383) 
850,044 
973,316 
(13,919) 
959,397 
– cash and balances at central banks
 
267,674 
— 
267,674 
285,868 
— 
285,868 
– Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness
 
42,293 
— 
42,293 
42,024 
— 
42,024 
– reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
 
252,549 
(4,383) 
248,166 
252,217 
(13,919) 
238,298 
– financial investments 
 
153,973 
— 
153,973 
148,326 
— 
148,326 
– assets held for sale
 
27,234 
— 
27,234 
114,134 
— 
114,134 
– prepayments, accrued income and other assets
 
110,704 
— 
110,704 
130,747 
— 
130,747 
Derivatives 
 
268,637 
(254,257) 
14,380 
229,714 
(222,059) 
7,655 
Total on-balance sheet exposure to credit risk
 
2,155,761 
(281,462) 1,874,299 
2,254,467 
(258,585) 1,995,882 
Total off-balance sheet
 
970,610 
— 
970,610 
1,007,885 
— 1,007,885 
– financial and other guarantees
 
109,380 
— 
109,380 
111,102 
— 
111,102 
– loan and other credit-related commitments
 
861,230 
— 
861,230 
896,783 
— 
896,783 
At 31 Dec 
 
3,126,371 
(281,462) 2,844,909 
3,262,352 
(258,585) 3,003,767 
Concentration of exposure
We have a number of global businesses with a broad range of 
products. We operate in a number of geographical markets with the 
majority of our exposures in Asia and Europe.
For an analysis of:
–
financial investments, see Note 16 on the financial statements;
–
trading assets, see Note 11 on the financial statements;
–
derivatives, see page 184 and Note 15 on the financial statements; 
and
–
loans and advances by industry sector and by the location of the 
principal operations of the lending subsidiary (or, in the case of the 
operations of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
Limited, HSBC Bank plc, HSBC Bank Middle East Limited and 
HSBC Bank USA, by the location of the lending branch), see page 
170 for wholesale lending and page 184 for personal lending.
Credit deterioration of financial 
instruments 
(Audited)
 A summary of our current policies and practices regarding the identification, 
treatment and measurement of stage 1, stage 2, stage 3 (credit impaired) 
and POCI financial instruments can be found in Note 1.2 on the financial 
statements.
Measurement uncertainty and sensitivity analysis of ECL estimates
(Audited)
The recognition and measurement of ECL involves the use of 
judgement and estimation. We form multiple economic scenarios, 
apply these forecasts to credit risk models to estimate future credit 
losses, and probability weight the results to determine an unbiased 
ECL estimate. 
Management assessed the current economic environment, reviewed 
the latest forecasts and discussed key risks before selecting the 
appropriate economic scenarios and their weightings. 
The Central scenario is constructed to reflect the latest 
macroeconomic expectations. Outer scenarios incorporate the 
crystallisation of economic and geopolitical risks.
In the fourth quarter of 2024, the four economic scenarios were 
modified to reflect heightened policy uncertainty following the US 
election and to overcome any lags in consensus forecasts. An 
adjustment factor based on more recent views of expected tariffs and 
other policy changes was modelled and then applied to each of the 
economic scenarios. The effect was to lower growth expectations in 
our major markets, while the impact on inflation and interest rates 
was varied.
Management judgemental adjustments are used where modelled 
ECL does not fully reflect the identified risks and related uncertainty, 
or to capture significant late-breaking events.
At 31 December 2024, there was an overall reduction in management 
judgemental adjustments compared with 31 December 2023, as 
modelled outcomes better reflected the key risks at 31 December 2024.
Methodology
At 31 December 2024, four scenarios were used to capture the latest 
economic expectations and to articulate management’s view of the 
range of risks and potential outcomes. Each scenario is updated with 
the latest economic forecasts and distributional estimates every 
quarter.
Three scenarios, the Upside, Central and Downside, are drawn from 
consensus forecasts, market data and distributional estimates of the 
entire range of economic outcomes. The fourth scenario, the 
Downside 2, represents management’s view of severe downside 
risks. Consensus estimates are deployed as conditioning variables in a 
proprietary expansion of the scenario variables. 
The Central scenario is deemed the ‘most likely’ scenario, and usually 
attracts the largest probability weighting. It is created using consensus 
forecasts, which is the average of a panel of external forecasts.
The outer scenarios represent the tails of the distribution and are less 
likely to occur. The consensus Upside and Downside scenarios are 
created with reference to forecast probability distributions for select 
markets that capture economists’ views of the entire range of 
economic outcomes. In the later years of these scenarios, projections 
revert to long-term consensus trend expectations. Reversion to trend 
expectations is done with reference to historically observed quarterly 
changes in the values of macroeconomic variables.
Risk review
148
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The fourth scenario, the Downside 2, represents management’s view of 
severe downside risks. It is a globally consistent, narrative-driven 
scenario that explores a more extreme economic outcome than those 
captured by the consensus scenarios. In this scenario, variables do not, 
by design, revert to long-term trend expectations and may instead 
explore alternative states of equilibrium, where economic variables move 
permanently away from past trends. 
The consensus Downside and the consensus Upside scenarios are each 
constructed to be consistent with a 10% probability. The Downside 2 is 
calibrated to a 5% probability. The Central scenario is assigned the 
remaining 75%. This weighting scheme is deemed appropriate for the 
unbiased estimation of ECL in most circumstances. However, 
management may depart from this probability-based scenario weighting 
approach when the economic outlook and forecasts are determined to 
be particularly uncertain and risks are elevated.
For the fourth quarter of 2024, we assessed that consensus forecasts 
and distributional estimates did not adequately reflect the 
consequences of the US election on the global economic outlook. 
Due to the lag in forecasts there was increased uncertainty as to how 
tariffs would be implemented and economic policy would change. As 
such, scenarios have been constructed using the described standard 
methodology and an adjustment – to account for policy changes – 
applied. The adjustment was based on a modelled update to the 
Central scenario and incorporated a detailed narrative of US economic 
policy proposals, including specific tariff rates. The modelled results 
were then layered onto the Central scenario, which resulted in 
changes to most variables. To quantify the impact, the adjustment 
reduces GDP growth in our key markets by an average of 30bps and 
50bps respectively, in the first two years of the Central scenario 
forecast. Outer scenarios were adjusted in parallel. 
The scenario adjustment entailed no change in scenario probability 
weights, which remained in line with our Forward Economic Guidance 
(’FEG’) framework. Uncertainties relating to the policy outlook have been 
addressed in the scenarios directly. Measures of dispersion and 
uncertainty have remained low but may reflect lags in the consensus 
economic forecasting process.
Scenarios produced to calculate ECL are aligned to HSBC’s top and 
emerging risks. 
Description of economic scenarios
The economic assumptions presented in this section have been 
formed by HSBC with reference to external forecasts and estimates, 
specifically for the purpose of calculating ECL. 
Forecasts may change and remain subject to uncertainty. Outer 
scenarios are designed to capture the potential crystallisation of key 
economic and financial risks and alternative paths for economic 
variables. 
In our key markets, the Central scenario incorporates potential 
impacts from anticipated changes to US economic and trade policy, 
including higher tariffs. The overall effect of the adjustment in our key 
markets is to lower GDP and raise inflation and unemployment 
estimates, relative to the consensus. Consequently, GDP growth and 
unemployment forecasts have deteriorated in the fourth quarter of 
2024, compared with the fourth quarter of 2023. With regards to 
monetary policy, the expected path for interest rates in many of our 
markets is based on market futures. Interest rate expectations have 
increased relative to the fourth quarter of 2023, with fewer rate cuts 
forecast. The exception is mainland China, where the headwinds to 
growth ensure that forecast interest rates are lower.
At the end of 2024, risks to the economic outlook included a number 
of significant geopolitical issues. Within our Downside scenarios, the 
economic consequences from the crystallisation of those risks were 
captured by higher commodity and goods prices, the re-acceleration 
of inflation, a further rise in interest rates and a global recession. 
The scenarios used to calculate ECL are described below.
The consensus Central scenario
HSBC’s Central scenario reflects expectations for slower growth and 
higher inflation and unemployment across many of our key markets.
Expectations of lower GDP growth during 2025 are driven by the 
assumed effects of higher tariffs, which impede trade flows, weaken 
consumption and deter investment. In the scenario, the US applies tariffs 
on key trading partners, focusing on mainland China and Mexico at the 
outset of the new administration’s term, before moving attention to 
other trading partners. Countries are expected to respond in kind. As a 
direct consequence of tariffs, trade growth is expected to be lower, 
which in turn weighs on GDP growth. 
Mainland China, Hong Kong and Mexico experience the greatest 
negative consequences given their deeper trade and financial 
interlinkages, with the US economy. Indirect consequences from tariffs 
dampen growth elsewhere. Tariffs, or the threat of them, increases 
uncertainty, leading to lower confidence and reduced investment.
Tighter restrictions on immigration into the US are also expected to 
reduce the size of the labour force, putting upward pressure on wage 
growth. At the same time, higher tariff rates drive US inflation. Higher 
inflation is assumed to erode purchasing power and reduces GDP 
growth. In other markets, including in Mexico, higher inflation is also 
expected due to currency depreciation. The higher projected rates of 
inflation ensure that central banks are expected to slow the pace of 
interest rate reductions. The exception is in mainland China, where 
the PBoC cuts interest rates as the excess of domestic supply is 
expected to become more acute and drives prices lower.
Global GDP is expected to grow by 2.5% in 2025 in the Central 
scenario, and the average rate of global GDP growth is forecast to be 
2.6% over the five-year forecast period. This is below the average 
growth rate over the five-year period prior to the onset of the pandemic 
of 2.9%. 
The key features of our Central scenario are:
–
GDP growth rates across the majority of our main markets are 
expected to slow in 2025 and 2026, due to the implementation of 
higher tariffs as well as underlying structural weaknesses in some 
economies. The most significant slowdowns in activity are expected 
to occur in the markets with the highest trade dependence with the 
US. Elevated interest rates and higher price levels are also expected 
to continue to weigh on some consumer and corporate segments.
–
In most markets, unemployment is forecast to rise moderately in 
2025 as economic activity slows, although it will remain low by 
historical standards. 
–
Inflation is forecast to increase in several of our main markets, as a 
result of tariffs, even as services price inflation is expected to ease as 
wage growth moderates. However, inflation largely remains within 
central banks’ target ranges from 2025. The main exceptions are 
Hong Kong and mainland China, where inflation is expected to remain 
subdued, despite higher tariffs, due to weak domestic demand. 
–
Housing market conditions remain mixed, with price weakness 
expected to persist in Hong Kong and mainland China, stronger 
growth in the UAE and Mexico, and more muted price growth in the 
UK, US and France. High inventory levels remain the biggest drag on 
Hong Kong and mainland China residential property and this is 
expected to lead to another year of price declines in 2025, before a 
gradual recovery from 2026. 
–
Challenging conditions are also forecast to continue in certain 
segments of the commercial property sector in a number of our key 
markets. Structural changes to demand in the office segment in 
particular have driven lower valuations. 
–
Policy interest rates in key markets are forecast to gradually decline 
further in 2025. In the longer term, they are expected to remain at a 
higher level than in recent years.
–
The Brent crude oil price is forecast to average around $69 per barrel 
over the projection period.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
149
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The Central scenario was created with forecasts available in late November, and reviewed continually until the end of December 2024. In accordance 
with HSBC’s scenario framework, a probability weight of 75% has been assigned to the Central scenario across all major markets. 
The following tables describe key macroeconomic variables in the consensus Central scenario.
GDP (annual average growth rate, %)
2025
 
1.2 
 
2.0 
 
1.7 
 
4.0 
 
0.9 
 
4.4 
 
0.9 
2026
 
1.3 
 
1.6 
 
1.8 
 
3.7 
 
0.9 
 
4.2 
 
1.2 
2027
 
1.8 
 
1.6 
 
3.5 
 
4.3 
 
1.4 
 
3.9 
 
1.7 
2028
 
1.6 
 
1.8 
 
3.1 
 
3.9 
 
1.5 
 
3.6 
 
1.9 
2029
 
1.6 
 
2.0 
 
2.7 
 
3.7 
 
1.4 
 
3.6 
 
2.0 
5-year average1
 
1.5 
 
1.8 
 
2.6 
 
3.9 
 
1.2 
 
3.9 
 
1.5 
Unemployment rate (%)
2025
 
4.9 
 
4.4 
 
3.3 
 
5.2 
 
7.5 
 
2.7 
 
3.5 
2026
 
4.7 
 
4.3 
 
3.7 
 
5.4 
 
7.3 
 
2.6 
 
3.5 
2027
 
4.5 
 
4.3 
 
3.3 
 
5.2 
 
7.2 
 
2.6 
 
3.5 
2028
 
4.3 
 
4.2 
 
3.0 
 
5.0 
 
7.0 
 
2.5 
 
3.5 
2029
 
4.3 
 
4.1 
 
2.9 
 
5.0 
 
7.0 
 
2.5 
 
3.5 
5-year average1
 
4.5 
 
4.2 
 
3.2 
 
5.2 
 
7.2 
 
2.6 
 
3.5 
House prices (annual average growth rate, %)
2025
 
1.4 
 
4.4 
 
(0.5) 
 
(5.9) 
 
2.1 
 
9.3 
 
7.6 
2026
 
3.8 
 
3.2 
 
2.4 
 
(0.7) 
 
4.4 
 
5.1 
 
4.5 
2027
 
4.6 
 
2.4 
 
3.0 
 
3.2 
 
4.4 
 
3.6 
 
4.2 
2028
 
3.5 
 
2.5 
 
2.7 
 
4.1 
 
3.8 
 
1.8 
 
4.0 
2029
 
2.7 
 
2.6 
 
2.7 
 
2.9 
 
3.1 
 
1.3 
 
4.0 
5-year average1
 
3.2 
 
3.0 
 
2.1 
 
0.7 
 
3.6 
 
4.2 
 
4.9 
Inflation (annual average growth rate, %)
2025
 
2.4 
 
2.4 
 
1.4 
 
0.3 
 
1.2 
 
2.1 
 
5.0 
2026
 
2.1 
 
2.8 
 
1.9 
 
1.0 
 
1.6 
 
1.9 
 
3.9 
2027
 
2.1 
 
2.5 
 
2.2 
 
1.5 
 
2.0 
 
1.8 
 
3.4 
2028
 
2.0 
 
2.2 
 
2.2 
 
1.7 
 
2.3 
 
1.9 
 
3.4 
2029
 
2.0 
 
2.1 
 
2.3 
 
1.6 
 
2.2 
 
1.8 
 
3.4 
5-year average 
 
2.1 
 
2.4 
 
2.0 
 
1.2 
 
1.9 
 
1.9 
 
3.8 
Central bank policy rate (annual average, %)
2025
 
4.2 
 
4.1 
 
4.5 
 
2.9 
 
2.1 
 
4.1 
 
9.4 
2026
 
3.9 
 
3.7 
 
4.1 
 
2.9 
 
1.8 
 
3.8 
 
8.8 
2027
 
3.8 
 
3.7 
 
4.0 
 
3.0 
 
2.0 
 
3.7 
 
8.8 
2028
 
3.7 
 
3.6 
 
4.0 
 
3.2 
 
2.0 
 
3.6 
 
8.9 
2029
 
3.7 
 
3.6 
 
4.0 
 
3.3 
 
2.1 
 
3.6 
 
8.9 
5-year average1
 
3.9 
 
3.7 
 
4.1 
 
3.1 
 
2.0 
 
3.8 
 
8.9 
Consensus Central scenario 2025–2029 (as at 4Q24)
UK
US
Hong Kong
Mainland China
France
UAE
Mexico
1 The five-year average is calculated over a projected period of 20 quarters from 1Q25 to 4Q29.
2 For mainland China, the rate shown is the Loan Prime Rate.
Risk review
150
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

GDP (annual average growth rate, %)
2024
 
0.3 
 
1.0 
 
2.6 
 
4.5 
 
0.8 
 
3.7 
 
1.9 
2025
 
1.2 
 
1.8 
 
2.7 
 
4.4 
 
1.5 
 
4.0 
 
2.2 
2026
 
1.7 
 
2.1 
 
2.6 
 
4.3 
 
1.6 
 
3.8 
 
2.3 
2027
 
1.6 
 
2.0 
 
2.6 
 
3.8 
 
1.5 
 
3.4 
 
2.4 
2028
 
1.6 
 
2.0 
 
2.6 
 
3.9 
 
1.5 
 
3.4 
 
2.4 
5-year average1
 
1.3 
 
1.8 
 
2.6 
 
4.2 
 
1.4 
 
3.6 
 
2.2 
Unemployment rate (%)
2024
 
4.7 
 
4.3 
 
3.0 
 
5.2 
 
7.5 
 
2.6 
 
2.9 
2025
 
4.6 
 
4.2 
 
3.0 
 
5.1 
 
7.3 
 
2.6 
 
2.9 
2026
 
4.3 
 
4.0 
 
3.2 
 
5.1 
 
7.0 
 
2.6 
 
2.9 
2027
 
4.2 
 
4.0 
 
3.2 
 
5.1 
 
6.8 
 
2.6 
 
2.9 
2028
 
4.2 
 
4.0 
 
3.2 
 
5.1 
 
6.8 
 
2.6 
 
2.9 
5-year average1
 
4.4 
 
4.1 
 
3.1 
 
5.1 
 
7.1 
 
2.6 
 
2.9 
House prices (annual average growth rate, %)
2024
 
(5.5) 
 
2.9 
 
(6.6) 
 
(0.6) 
 
(1.0) 
 
12.6 
 
6.5 
2025
 
0.1 
 
2.7 
 
(0.7) 
 
1.1 
 
2.4 
 
7.7 
 
4.2 
2026
 
3.5 
 
3.1 
 
2.6 
 
2.6 
 
4.0 
 
4.4 
 
4.2 
2027
 
3.0 
 
2.7 
 
2.8 
 
4.0 
 
4.4 
 
2.6 
 
4.0 
2028
 
3.0 
 
2.1 
 
3.0 
 
4.5 
 
4.0 
 
2.3 
 
4.0 
5-year average1
 
0.8 
 
2.7 
 
0.2 
 
2.3 
 
2.8 
 
5.9 
 
4.6 
Inflation (annual average growth rate,%)
2024
 
3.2 
 
2.7 
 
2.1 
 
1.8 
 
2.7 
 
2.3 
 
4.2 
2025
 
2.2 
 
2.2 
 
2.1 
 
2.0 
 
1.8 
 
2.2 
 
3.6 
2026
 
2.2 
 
2.3 
 
2.2 
 
2.1 
 
1.7 
 
2.1 
 
3.5 
2027
 
2.3 
 
2.2 
 
2.4 
 
2.0 
 
1.9 
 
2.1 
 
3.5 
2028
 
2.3 
 
2.2 
 
2.4 
 
2.0 
 
2.1 
 
2.1 
 
3.5 
5-year average1
 
2.4 
 
2.3 
 
2.2 
 
2.0 
 
2.0 
 
2.1 
 
3.7 
Central bank policy rate (annual average, %)
2024
 
5.0 
 
5.0 
 
5.4 
 
3.2 
 
3.6 
 
5.1 
 
10.4 
2025
 
4.3 
 
4.0 
 
4.4 
 
3.3 
 
2.8 
 
4.1 
 
8.6 
2026
 
3.9 
 
3.7 
 
4.1 
 
3.5 
 
2.6 
 
3.7 
 
7.9 
2027
 
3.8 
 
3.7 
 
4.1 
 
3.7 
 
2.6 
 
3.7 
 
7.9 
2028
 
3.7 
 
3.8 
 
4.1 
 
3.9 
 
2.7 
 
3.8 
 
8.1 
5-year average1
 
4.1 
 
4.1 
 
4.4 
 
3.5 
 
2.9 
 
4.1 
 
8.6 
Consensus Central scenario 2024–2028 (as at 4Q23)
UK
US
Hong Kong
Mainland China
France
UAE
Mexico
1 The five-year average is calculated over a projected period of 20 quarters from 1Q24 to 4Q28.
2 For mainland China, the rate shown is the Loan Prime Rate. In prior periods, including the 4Q23 disclosure, the reference rate shown for mainland China was the 
Lending Rate.
The graphs compare the Central scenario at the year end 2023 with economic expectations at the end of 2024.
GDP growth: Comparison of Central scenarios
Hong Kong
4Q23 Central 
4Q24 Central
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Note: Real GDP shown as year-on-year percentage change.
Mainland China
4Q23 Central
4Q24 Central
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Note: Real GDP shown as year-on-year percentage change.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
151
4Q23 Central 5Y Average: 2.6%
4Q24 Central 5Y Average: 2.6%
4Q23 Central 5Y Average: 4.2%
4Q24 Central 5Y Average: 3.9%
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

UK
4Q23 Central
4Q24 Central
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
Note: Real GDP shown as year-on-year percentage change.
US
4Q23 Central 
4Q24 Central
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
Note: Real GDP shown as year-on-year percentage change.
The consensus Upside scenario
Compared with the Central scenario, the consensus Upside scenario 
features stronger economic activity in the near term, before 
converging to long-run trend expectations. It also incorporates a faster 
fall in the rate of inflation than in the Central scenario. 
The scenario is consistent with a number of key upside risk themes. 
These include only limited increases in tariffs and a faster fall in the 
rate of inflation that allows central banks to reduce interest rates 
more quickly. The Upside scenario would also be consistent with a 
de-escalation in geopolitical tensions, where the Russia-Ukraine war 
moves quickly towards a conclusion, tensions in the Middle East 
subside and US-China relations become more cordial.
The following tables describe key macroeconomic variables in the 
consensus Upside scenario.
Consensus Upside scenario 2025–2029 (as at 4Q24)
UK
US
Hong Kong
Mainland China
France
UAE
Mexico
GDP level (%, start-to-peak)1
 
11.3 (4Q29)
 
13.6 (4Q29)
 
21.4 (4Q29)
 
27.5 
(4Q29)
 
8.9 (4Q29)
 
28.9 (4Q29)
 
13.6 (4Q29)
Unemployment rate (%, min)2
 
3.5 (3Q26)
 
3.6 (1Q26)
 
2.9 (4Q29)
 
4.9 
(4Q26)
 
6.4 (4Q26)
 
2.2 (4Q26)
 
3.0 (1Q25)
House price index (%, start-to-peak)1
 
24.2 (4Q29)
 
23.6 (4Q29)
 
25.3 (4Q29)
 
9.8 
(4Q29)
 
22.8 (4Q29)
 
26.1 (4Q29)
 
31.7 (4Q29)
Inflation rate (YoY % change, min)3
 
1.4 (1Q26)
 
1.6 (2Q26)
 
(0.1) (4Q25)
 
(1.0) (4Q25)
 
0.1 (4Q25)
 
0.6 (4Q25)
 
3.1 (2Q26)
Central bank policy rate (%, min)2
 
3.6 (4Q25)
 
3.6 (1Q29)
 
4.0 (1Q29)
 
2.7 
(1Q26)
 
1.4 (3Q25)
 
3.6 (1Q29)
 
7.6 (1Q26)
1 Cumulative change to the highest level of the series during the 20-quarter projection. 
2 Lowest projected unemployment or policy interest rate in the scenario. For mainland China, rate shown is the Loan Prime Rate.
3 Lowest projected year-on-year percentage change in inflation in the scenario.
Consensus Upside scenario 2024–2028 (as at 4Q23)
UK
US
Hong Kong
Mainland China
France
UAE
Mexico
GDP level (%, start-to-peak)1
 
10.8 
(4Q28)
 
14.3 
(4Q28)
 
21.8 
(4Q28)
 
30.4 
(4Q28)
 
10.4 
(4Q28)
 
30.7 
(4Q28)
 
17.8 
(4Q28)
Unemployment rate (%, min)2
 
3.1 
(4Q24)
 
3.1 
(2Q25)
 
2.4 
(3Q24)
 
4.8 
(4Q25)
 
6.2 
(4Q25)
 
2.0 
(4Q25)
 
2.4 
(3Q24)
House price index (%, start-to-peak)1
 
13.0 
(4Q28)
 
21.9 
(4Q28)
 
17.9 
(4Q28)
 
19.7 
(4Q28)
 
19.6 
(4Q28)
 
34.2 
(4Q28)
 
30.6 
(4Q28)
Inflation rate (YoY % change, min)3
 
1.3 
(2Q25)
 
1.4 
(1Q25)
 
0.3 
(4Q24)
 
0.6 
(3Q24)
 
1.5 
(3Q24)
 
1.4 
(1Q25)
 
2.7 
(1Q25)
Central bank policy rate (%, min)2
 
3.7 
(3Q28)
 
3.7 
(2Q27)
 
4.1 
(1Q27)
 
3.1 
(3Q24)
 
2.6 
(2Q26)
 
3.7 
(1Q27)
 
7.8 
(2Q25)
1 Cumulative change to the highest level of the series during the 20-quarter projection. 
2 Lowest projected unemployment or policy interest rate in the scenario. For mainland China, the rate shown is the Loan Prime Rate. In prior periods, including the 
4Q23 disclosure, the reference rate shown for mainland China was the Lending Rate.
3 Lowest projected year-on-year percentage change in inflation in the scenario.
Downside scenarios
Downside scenarios explore the intensification and crystallisation of a 
number of key economic and financial risks. These include a more 
material escalation of tariff policies and geopolitical tensions, which 
disrupt key commodity and goods markets, causing inflation and 
interest rates to rise, and creating a global recession.
As the geopolitical environment remains volatile and complex, risks 
include: 
–
an increase in protectionist policies, as countries that impose 
tariffs are met with retaliatory actions. This lowers investment, 
complicates international supply chains, and impedes trade flows; 
–
broader and more prolonged conflicts in the Middle East and 
between Russia and Ukraine, which further disrupt energy and 
food supplies; and 
–
continued differences between the US and China, which could 
affect economic confidence, and the global goods trade and supply 
chains for critical technologies.
High inflation and higher interest rates also remain key risks. Should 
tariffs increase significantly and geopolitical tensions escalate, energy 
and food prices could rise and increase pressure on household 
budgets and firms’ costs. Higher inflation and labour supply shortages 
could also trigger a wage-price spiral and put sustained pressure on 
household incomes and corporate margins. In turn, it raises the risk 
that central banks react by raising interest rates, leading to higher 
defaults and an economic recession. 
Risk review
152
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
4Q23 Central 5Y Average: 1.3%
4Q24 Central 5Y Average: 1.5%
4Q23 Central 5Y Average: 1.8%
4Q24 Central 5Y Average: 1.8%

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The consensus Downside scenario
In the consensus Downside scenario, economic activity is weaker 
compared with the Central scenario. In this scenario, GDP declines, 
unemployment rates rise, and asset prices fall. The scenario features 
an increase in tariffs over and above those assumed in the Central 
scenario and an escalation of geopolitical tensions, which causes a 
rise in inflation, as supply chain constraints intensify and energy prices 
rise. The scenario also features a temporary increase in interest rates 
above the Central scenario, before the effects of weaker consumption 
demand begin to dominate and commodity prices and inflation fall 
again. 
The following tables describe key macroeconomic variables in the 
consensus Downside scenario.
Consensus Downside scenario 2025–2029 (as at 4Q24)
UK
US
Hong Kong
Mainland China
France
UAE
Mexico
GDP level (%, start-to-trough)1
 
(1.0) (4Q26)
 
(0.6) (3Q25)
 
(4.5) (4Q25)
 
(2.5) 
(3Q25)
 
(0.6) (1Q26)
 
0.3 (1Q25)
 
(2.1) (4Q26)
Unemployment rate (%, max)2
 
6.1 (4Q25)
 
5.3 (3Q25)
 
5.1 (2Q26)
 
6.9 
(4Q26)
 
8.3 (3Q25)
 
3.4 (1Q26)
 
4.1 (4Q25)
House price index (%, start-totrough)1
 
(4.5) (1Q26)
 
(0.2) (1Q25)
 
(1.9) (2Q26)
 
(12.8) 
(3Q26)
 
(0.3) (1Q25)
 
(0.4) (1Q25)
 
2.1 (1Q25)
Inflation rate (YoY % change, max)3
 
3.4 (4Q25)
 
4.5 (1Q26)
 
3.1 (1Q26)
 
2.0 
(1Q26)
 
2.6 (3Q25)
 
2.8 (1Q26)
 
7.4 (4Q25)
Central bank policy rate (%, max)2
 
5.0 (1Q25)
 
4.8 (1Q25)
 
5.2 (1Q25)
 
3.0 
(1Q25)
 
3.2 (1Q25)
 
4.8 (1Q25)
 
11.5 (3Q25)
1 Cumulative change to the lowest level of the series during the 20-quarter projection.
2 The highest projected unemployment or policy interest rate in the scenario. For mainland China, the rate shown is the Loan Prime Rate.
3 The highest projected year-on-year percentage change in inflation in the scenario.
Consensus Downside scenario 2024–2028 (as at 4Q23)
UK
US
Hong Kong
Mainland China
France
UAE
Mexico
GDP level (%, start-to-trough)1
 
(1.0) (2Q25)
 
(1.4) (3Q24)
 
(1.6) (3Q25)
 
(1.5) 
(1Q24)
 
(0.3) (2Q24)
 
1.4 (1Q24)
 
(0.3) (4Q24)
Unemployment rate (%, max)2
 
6.4 (1Q25)
 
5.6 (4Q24)
 
4.7 (4Q25)
 
6.9 
(4Q25)
 
8.5 (4Q24)
 
3.7 (4Q25)
 
3.5 (4Q25)
House price index (%, start-totrough)1
 
(12.0) (2Q25)
 
(1.3) (3Q24)
 
(9.6) (4Q24)
 
(7.1) 
(3Q25)
 
(1.2) (3Q24)
 
0.3 (1Q24)
 
1.2 (1Q24)
Inflation rate (YoY % change, max)3
 
4.1 (1Q24)
 
3.5 (4Q24)
 
3.8 (3Q24)
 
3.5 
(4Q24)
 
3.8 (2Q24)
 
3.0 (1Q24)
 
6.5 (4Q24)
Central bank policy rate (%, max)2
 
5.7 (1Q24)
 
5.6 (1Q24)
 
6.0 (1Q24)
 
3.2 
(3Q24)
 
4.2 (1Q24)
 
5.7 (1Q24)
 
12.0 (3Q24)
1 Cumulative change to the lowest level of the series during the 20-quarter projection.
2 The highest projected unemployment or policy interest rate in the scenario. For mainland China, the rate shown is the Loan Prime Rate. In prior periods, including 
the 4Q23 disclosure, the reference rate shown for mainland China was the Lending Rate.
3 The highest projected year-on-year percentage change in inflation in the scenario. 
Downside 2 scenario
The Downside 2 scenario features a deep global recession and 
reflects management’s view of the tail of the economic distribution. It 
incorporates the crystallisation of a number of risks simultaneously, 
including significant increases in tariffs globally, where the US 
imposes particularly high and punitive tariffs on imports from 
mainland China and Mexico. A further escalation of geopolitical crises 
is also assumed, which creates severe supply disruptions to goods 
and energy markets.
In the scenario, as inflation surges and central banks tighten monetary 
policy further, consumer and business confidence falls. However, this 
impulse is assumed to be short-lived, as recession takes hold, causing 
a fall in demand, leading commodity prices to correct sharply and 
global price inflation to fall. 
The following tables describe key macroeconomic variables in the 
Downside 2 scenario.
Downside 2 scenario 2025–2029 (as at 4Q24)
UK
US
Hong Kong
Mainland China
France
UAE
Mexico
GDP level (%, start-to-trough)1
 
(9.1) (2Q26)
 
(4.1) (2Q26)
 
(10.1) (4Q25)
 
(8.7) 
(4Q25)
 
(7.9) (2Q26)
 
(6.8) (2Q26)
 
(10.5) (3Q26)
Unemployment rate (%, max)2
 
8.4 (2Q26)
 
9.3 (2Q26)
 
7.1 (1Q26)
 
7.1 
(4Q26)
 
10.4 (1Q27)
 
5.0 (3Q25)
 
5.6 (1Q26)
House price index (%, start-totrough)1
 
(27.2) (4Q26)
 
(15.8) (4Q25)
 
(34.4) (3Q27)
 
(30.5) 
(4Q26)
 
(14.0) (2Q27)
 
(13.2) (2Q27)
 
2.0 (1Q25)
Inflation rate (YoY % change, max)3
 
10.1 (2Q25)
 
4.9 (4Q25)
 
3.6 (1Q26)
 
3.8 
(4Q25)
 
7.6 (2Q25)
 
3.7 (2Q25)
 
7.9 (4Q25)
Central bank policy rate (%, max)2
 
5.5 (1Q25)
 
5.5 (1Q25)
 
5.9 (1Q25)
 
3.5 
(3Q25)
 
4.2 (1Q25)
 
5.6 (1Q25)
 
12.1 (3Q25)
1 Cumulative change to the lowest level of the series during the 20-quarter projection.
2 The highest projected unemployment or policy interest rate in the scenario. For mainland China, the rate shown is the Loan Prime Rate.
3 The highest projected year-on-year percentage change in inflation in the scenario.
Downside 2 scenario 2024–2028 (as at 4Q23)
UK
US
Hong Kong
Mainland China
France
UAE
Mexico
GDP level (%, start-to-trough)1
 
(8.8) (2Q25)
 
(4.6) (1Q25)
 
(8.2) (1Q25)
 
(6.4) 
(1Q25)
 
(6.6) (1Q25)
 
(4.9) (2Q25)
 
(8.1) (2Q25)
Unemployment rate (%, max)2
 
8.4 (2Q25)
 
9.3 (2Q25)
 
6.4 (4Q24)
 
7.0 
(4Q25)
 
10.2 (4Q25)
 
4.3 (3Q24)
 
4.9 (2Q25)
House price index (%, start-totrough)1
 
(30.2) (4Q25)
 
(14.7) (4Q24)
 
(32.8) (3Q26)
 
(25.5) 
(4Q25)
 
(14.5) (2Q26)
 
(2.9) (4Q25)
 
1.2 (1Q24)
Inflation rate (YoY % change, max)3
 
10.1 (2Q24)
 
4.8 (2Q24)
 
4.1 (3Q24)
 
4.1 
(4Q24)
 
8.6 (2Q24)
 
3.5 (2Q24)
 
7.0 (4Q24)
Central bank policy rate (%, max)2
 
6.0 (1Q24)
 
6.1 (1Q24)
 
6.4 (1Q24)
 
4.1 
(3Q24)
 
5.2 (1Q24)
 
6.1 (1Q24)
 
12.7 (3Q24)
1 Cumulative change to the lowest level of the series during the 20-quarter projection.
2 The highest projected unemployment or policy interest rate in the scenario. For mainland China, rate shown is the Loan Prime Rate. In prior periods, including the 
4Q23 disclosure, the reference rate shown for mainland China was the Lending Rate. 
3 The highest projected year-on-year percentage change in inflation in the scenario.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
153
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The following graphs show the historical and forecasted GDP growth rate for the various economic scenarios in our four largest markets.
Hong Kong
Central
Upside
Downside
Downside 2
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
-12
-8
-4
0
4
8
12
Mainland China
Central
Upside
Downside
Downside 2
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
-12
-8
-4
0
4
8
12
UK
Central
Upside
Downside
Downside 2
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
-10
-8
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
US
Central
Upside
Downside
Downside 2
2024
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
-10
-8
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
Scenario weighting
Scenario weightings are calibrated to probabilities that are determined 
with reference to consensus forecast probability distributions. 
Management may then choose to vary weights if they assess that the 
calibration lags more recent events, or does not reflect their view of 
the distribution of economic and geopolitical risk. Management’s view 
of the scenarios and the probability distribution takes into 
consideration the relationship of the consensus scenario to both 
internal and external assessments of risk. 
In assessing the economic environment and the level of risk and 
uncertainty, management has considered both global and countryspecific factors.
In the fourth quarter of 2024, key considerations around uncertainty 
focused on: 
–
US import tariffs and bilateral tariff escalations globally, and the 
impact on trade and manufacturing supply chains; 
–
the extent and success of mainland China in deploying fiscal and 
monetary support to secure economic growth and underpin a 
recovery in the real estate market;
–
prospects for recovery in the Hong Kong residential property 
market; 
–
the implications of changes to monetary policy expectations on 
growth and employment;
–
estimation and forecast uncertainty for UK unemployment given 
ongoing methodology updates at the Office for National Statistics; 
and
–
risks of an asset price correction given elevated valuations across 
different asset classes.
Although these factors are significant, management assessed that 
following the tariff-based adjustment, the Central scenario reflected 
the most likely future economic outcome and that outer scenarios 
were sufficiently well calibrated to address the crystallisation of more 
severe risks. 
This led management to assign scenario probabilities that are aligned 
to the standard scenario probability calibration framework in all major 
markets. The Central scenario was assigned a 75% probability 
weighting in our major markets. The consensus Upside scenario was 
assigned a 10% weighting, and the consensus Downside scenario 
was given 10%. The Downside 2 was assigned a 5% weighting.
In support of the decision, it was noted that the effect of higher tariffs 
would be most negative in mainland China and Hong Kong, as it 
would limit trade growth (a significant growth driver in 2024) 
substantially and lead to weaker domestic demand. The adjustment to 
the Central scenario reflected this assumption. 
In the UK, tariffs have a small direct impact on GDP growth forecasts 
in the Central scenario, but indirect effects would be larger through 
weaker trade and lower global growth. The outlook also remains weak 
given the only partially offsetting impacts from measures announced 
in the 2024-25 Budget and higher US interest rates. 
For the US, the Central scenario reflects expectations that economic 
growth will slow in 2025 as households and businesses adjust to 
higher inflation, lower labour supply and elevated interest rates. 
Risk review
154
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The impact from tariffs is minimal for the UAE, as trade with the US is 
small, but it is assumed to be affected through secondary channels, 
including a stronger US dollar and higher interest rates. It was also 
observed that geopolitical risks have remained high since the 
outbreak of conflict in the Middle East, but economic and market 
impacts have been limited and oil production remains unaffected. 
Escalation risks were assessed to be consistent with the probabilities 
assigned to the Downside scenario.
Management concluded that Mexico is likely to be one of the most 
heavily affected countries from US tariff policies and that the impacts 
are reflected in the scenarios. GDP growth forecasts in the Central 
scenario are lower than in previous periods, and inflation and interest 
rates are higher, in part due to an expected deprecation of the 
Mexican peso. 
In France, recent domestic political uncertainty is the main factor 
weighing on reduced growth prospects, and as with other European 
markets, there are also assumed to be negative impacts stemming 
from higher US tariffs. 
The following tables describe the probabilities assigned in each 
scenario.
Standard 
weights
UK
US
Hong 
Kong
Mainland 
China
Canada
France
UAE
Mexico
4Q24
Upside scenario
 
10 
 
10 
 
10 
 
10 
 
10 
 
10 
 
10 
 
10 
 
10 
Central scenario
 
75 
 
75 
 
75 
 
75 
 
75 
 
75 
 
75 
 
75 
 
75 
Downside scenario 
 
10 
 
10 
 
10 
 
10 
 
10 
 
10 
 
10 
 
10 
 
10 
Downside 2 scenario
 
5 
 
5 
 
5 
 
5 
 
5 
 
5 
 
5 
 
5 
 
5 
4Q23
Upside scenario
 
10 
 
10 
 
10 
 
10 
 
10 
 
10 
 
10 
 
10 
 
10 
Central scenario
 
75 
 
75 
 
75 
 
75 
 
75 
 
75 
 
75 
 
75 
 
75 
Downside scenario
 
10 
 
10 
 
10 
 
10 
 
10 
 
10 
 
10 
 
10 
 
10 
Downside 2 scenario
 
5 
 
5 
 
5 
 
5 
 
5 
 
5 
 
5 
 
5 
 
5 
Scenario weightings, %
 
At 31 December 2024, the consensus Upside and Central scenarios for all markets had a combined weighting of 85%, unchanged as at 
31 December 2023. Weightings assigned to downside scenarios also remained unchanged. 
Critical estimates and judgements
The calculation of ECL under IFRS 9 involved significant judgements, 
assumptions and estimates at 31 December 2024. These included:
–
the selection and configuration of economic scenarios, given the 
constant change in economic conditions and distribution of 
economic risks; and
–
estimating the economic effects of those scenarios on ECL, where 
similar observable historical conditions cannot be captured by the 
credit risk models.
How economic scenarios are 
reflected in ECL calculations
Models are used to reflect economic scenarios in ECL estimates. As 
described above, modelled assumptions and linkages based on historical 
information could not alone produce relevant information under the 
conditions experienced in 2024, and management judgemental 
adjustments were still required to support modelled outcomes. 
We have developed globally consistent methodologies for the 
application of forward economic guidance into the calculation of ECL 
for wholesale and retail credit risk. These standard approaches are 
described below, followed by the management judgemental 
adjustments made, including those to reflect the circumstances 
experienced in 2024.
For our wholesale portfolios, a global methodology is used for the 
estimation of the term structure of probability of default (‘PD’) and 
loss given default (‘LGD’). For PDs, we consider the correlation of 
forward economic guidance to default rates for a particular industry in 
a country. For LGD calculations, we consider the correlation of 
forward economic guidance to collateral values and realisation rates 
for a particular country and industry. PDs and LGDs are estimated for 
the entire term structure of each instrument. 
For impaired loans, allowance for ECL estimates are derived based on 
discounted cash flow (‘DCF’) calculations for internal forward-looking 
scenarios specific to individual borrower circumstances (see page 
359). Probability-weighted outcomes are applied, and depending on 
materiality and status of the borrower, the number of scenarios 
considered will change. Where relevant for the case being assessed, 
forward economic guidance is incorporated as part of these scenarios. 
LGD-driven proxy and modelled estimates are used for certain less 
material cases.
For our retail portfolios, the models are predominantly based on 
historical observations and correlations with default rates and 
collateral values. 
For PD, the impact of economic scenarios is modelled for each 
portfolio, using historical relationships between default rates and 
macroeconomic variables. These are included within IFRS 9 ECL 
estimates using either economic response models or models that 
contain internal, external and macroeconomic variables. The 
macroeconomic impact on PD is modelled over the period equal to 
the remaining maturity of the assets. 
For LGD, the impact is modelled for mortgage portfolios by 
forecasting future loan-to-value profiles for the remaining maturity of 
the asset, using national level house price index forecasts and 
applying the corresponding LGD expectation relative to the updated 
forecast collateral values.
For unsecured retail portfolios historically observed recovery rates are 
leveraged to measure loss. For both mortgages and unsecured, a 
limited number of portfolios utilise a macroeconomic dependent 
stressed LGD applied to the Downside 2 scenario.
Management judgemental 
adjustments
In the context of IFRS 9, management judgemental adjustments are 
typically short-term increases or decreases to the modelled allowance 
for ECL at either a customer, segment or portfolio level where 
management believes allowances do not sufficiently reflect the credit 
risk/expected credit losses at the reporting date. These can relate to 
risks or uncertainties that are not reflected in the models and/or to 
any late-breaking events with significant uncertainty, subject to 
management review and challenge.
This includes refining model inputs and outputs and using 
adjustments to ECL based on management judgement and 
quantitative analysis for impacts that are difficult to model.
The effects of management judgemental adjustments are considered for both 
balances and allowance for ECL when determining whether or not a significant 
increase in credit risk has occurred and is allocated to a stage where 
appropriate. This is in accordance with the internal adjustments framework.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
155
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Management judgemental adjustments are reviewed under the 
governance process for IFRS 9 (as detailed in the section ‘Credit risk 
management’ on page 139). Review and challenge focuses on the 
rationale and quantum of the adjustments with a further review 
carried out by the second line of defence where significant. For some 
management judgemental adjustments, internal frameworks establish 
the conditions under which these adjustments should no longer be 
required and as such are considered as part of the governance 
process. This internal governance process allows management 
judgemental adjustments to be reviewed regularly and, where 
possible, to reduce the reliance on these through model recalibration 
or redevelopment, as appropriate.
The drivers of management judgemental adjustments continue to 
evolve with the economic environment and as new risks emerge.
In addition to management judgemental adjustments there are also 
‘Other adjustments’, which are made to address process limitations 
and data/model deficiencies and can also include, where appropriate, 
the impact of new models where governance has sufficiently 
progressed to allow an accurate estimate of ECL allowance to be 
incorporated into the total reported ECL.
‘Management judgemental adjustments’ and ‘Other adjustments’ 
constitute the total value of adjustments to modelled allowance for 
ECL. For the wholesale portfolio, defaulted exposures are assessed 
individually and management judgemental adjustments are made only 
to the performing portfolio.
At 31 December 2024, there was a $0.6bn reduction in management 
judgemental adjustments compared with 31 December 2023. This 
was driven by retail due to reductions in economic uncertainty, 
primarily in the UK and Asia, and model redevelopments which 
captured macro-economic risks more effectively.
Management judgemental adjustments made in estimating the 
scenario-weighted reported allowance for ECL at 31 December 2024 
are set out in the following table.
Management judgemental adjustments to ECL at 31 December 20241
Retail
Wholesale2
Total
$bn
$bn
$bn
Modelled ECL (A)3
 
2.6 
2.0 
4.6 
Banks, sovereigns, government entities and low-risk counterparties
0.0
0.0
Corporate lending adjustments
 
0.1 
0.1 
Inflation related adjustments
 
0.0 
0.0
Other credit judgements
 
0.0 
0.0
Total management judgemental adjustments (B)4
 
0.0 
0.1 
0.1 
Other adjustments (C)5
 
(0.0) 
0.1 
0.1 
Final ECL (A + B + C)6
 
2.6 
2.2 
4.8 
Management judgemental adjustments to ECL at 31 December 20231,7
Retail
Wholesale2
Total
$bn
$bn
$bn
Modelled ECL (A)3
 
2.6 
2.4 
5.0 
Banks, sovereigns, government entities and low-risk counterparties
0.0
0.0
Corporate lending adjustments
 
0.1 
0.1 
Inflation-related adjustments
 
0.1 
 
0.1 
Other credit judgements
 
0.5 
 
0.5 
Total management judgemental adjustments (B)4
 
0.6 
0.1 
0.7 
Other adjustments (C)5
 
(0.0) 
0.0
0.0
Final ECL (A + B + C)6
 
3.2 
2.5 
5.7 
1 Management judgemental adjustments presented in the table reflect increases or (decreases) to allowance for ECL, respectively. 
2 The wholesale portfolio corresponds to adjustments to the performing portfolio (stage 1 and stage 2).
3 (A) refers to probability-weighted allowance for ECL before any adjustments are applied.
4 (B) refers to adjustments that are applied where management believes allowance for ECL does not sufficiently reflect the credit risk/expected credit losses of 
any given portfolio at the reporting date. These can relate to risks or uncertainties that are not reflected in the model and/or to any late-breaking events.
5 (C) refers to adjustments to allowance for ECL made to address process limitations and data/model deficiencies and can also include where appropriate, the 
impact of new models where governance has sufficiently progressed to allow an accurate estimate of ECL allowance to be incorporated into the total reported 
ECL.
6 As presented within our internal credit risk governance (see page 139).
7 31 December 2023 includes the Canada, Argentina, Armenia and Oman businesses and retail banking operations in France.
Management judgemental adjustments at 31 December 2024 were 
an increase to allowance for ECL of $0.1bn for the wholesale portfolio 
and $0.0bn for the retail portfolio.
At 31 December 2024, wholesale management judgemental 
adjustments were an increase to allowance for ECL of $0.1bn 
(31 December 2023: $0.1bn increase). These were mainly to 
corporate exposures to reflect heightened uncertainty in specific 
sectors and geographies, including offsetting adjustments to the real 
estate sector in mainland China, Hong Kong and the US, and 
adjustments to exposures to the automotive and industrial sectors in 
Germany. 
At 31 December 2024, retail management judgemental adjustments 
to allowance for ECL were $0.0bn (31 December 2023 $0.6bn). The 
reduction in adjustments compared with 31 December 2023 for 
inflation-related adjustments was primarily due to the reduction of 
inflation related risk in the UK and the sale of the Canadian banking 
business. Other credit judgements decreased due to reductions in 
economic uncertainty, primarily in the UK and Asia, and model 
redevelopments which captured macro-economic risks more 
effectively. 
Economic scenarios sensitivity 
analysis of ECL estimates
Management considered the sensitivity of the ECL outcome against 
the economic forecasts as part of the ECL governance process by 
recalculating the allowance for ECL under each scenario described 
above for selected portfolios, applying a 100% weighting to each 
scenario in turn. The weighting is reflected in both the determination 
of a significant increase in credit risk and the measurement of the 
resulting allowances.
Risk review
156
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The allowance for ECL calculated for the Upside and Downside 
scenarios should not be taken to represent the upper and lower limits 
of possible ECL outcomes. The impact of defaults that might occur in 
the future under different economic scenarios is captured by 
recalculating allowances for loans at the balance sheet date.
There is a particularly high degree of estimation uncertainty in 
numbers representing tail risk scenarios when assigned a 100% 
weighting.
For wholesale credit risk exposures, the sensitivity analysis excludes 
allowance for ECL and financial instruments related to defaulted 
(stage 3) obligors. The measurement of stage 3 ECL is relatively more 
sensitive to credit factors specific to the obligor than future economic 
scenarios, and therefore the effects of macroeconomic factors are not 
necessarily the key consideration when performing individual 
assessments of allowances for obligors in default. Loans to defaulted 
obligors are a small portion of the overall wholesale lending exposure, 
even if representing the majority of the allowance for ECL. Due to the 
range and specificity of the credit factors to which the ECL is 
sensitive, it is not possible to provide a meaningful alternative 
sensitivity analysis for a consistent set of risks across all defaulted 
obligors.
For retail mortgage exposures the sensitivity analysis includes 
allowance for ECL for defaulted obligors of loans and advances. This 
is because the retail ECL for secured mortgage portfolios, including 
loans in all stages, is sensitive to macroeconomic variables.
Wholesale and retail sensitivity
The wholesale and retail sensitivity tables present the 100% 
weighted results. These exclude portfolios held by the insurance 
business and small portfolios, and as such cannot be directly 
compared with personal and wholesale lending presented in other 
credit risk tables. In both the wholesale and retail analysis, the 
comparative period results for Downside 2 scenarios are also not 
directly comparable with the current period, because they reflect 
different risks relative to the consensus scenarios for the period end.
The wholesale and retail sensitivity analysis is stated inclusive of 
management judgemental adjustments, as appropriate to each 
scenario.
For both retail and wholesale portfolios, the gross carrying amount of 
financial instruments are the same under each scenario. For 
exposures with similar risk profile and product characteristics, the 
sensitivity impact is therefore largely the result of changes in 
macroeconomic assumptions.
Wholesale analysis
Reported 
Gross carrying 
amount4
Reported 
allowance for 
ECL
Consensus 
Central 
scenario 
allowance for 
ECL
Consensus 
Upside 
scenario 
allowance for 
ECL
Consensus 
Downside 
scenario 
allowance for 
ECL
Downside 2 
scenario 
allowance for 
ECL
By geography at 31 Dec 2024
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
UK
 
432,160 
717 
667 
526 
850 
2,389 
US
 
202,888 
216 
201 
205 
247 
461 
Hong Kong
 
450,966 
659 
616 
465 
906 
1,496 
Mainland China
 
137,960 
178 
141 
84 
329 
886 
Mexico
 
34,713 
69 
61 
46 
86 
302 
UAE
 
58,909 
51 
49 
40 
58 
120 
France
 
184,591 
82 
80 
69 
97 
125 
Other geographies5
 
455,823 
234 
216 
176 
304 
774 
Total
 
1,958,010 
2,205 
2,031 
1,612 
2,877 
6,555 
of which:
Stage 1
 
1,830,264 
689 
632 
494 
797 
803 
Stage 2
 
127,746 
1,516 
1,399 
1,118 
2,080 
5,751 
IFRS 9 ECL sensitivity to future economic conditions1,2,3
By geography at 31 Dec 2023
UK
 
426,427 
820 
754 
599 
1,041 
2,487 
US
 
191,104 
215 
199 
189 
268 
441 
Hong Kong
 
447,480 
609 
566 
433 
807 
1,393 
Mainland China
 
129,945 
258 
217 
142 
414 
945 
Canada5
 
84,092 
89 
75 
56 
107 
487 
Mexico
 
30,159 
60 
56 
46 
73 
226 
UAE
 
52,074 
32 
32 
30 
34 
40 
France
 
178,827 
98 
102 
90 
124 
141 
Other geographies5,7
 
450,271 
325 
298 
245 
410 
882 
Total
 
1,990,378 
2,507 
2,301 
1,829 
3,278 
7,043 
of which:
Stage 1
 
1,820,843 
754 
702 
553 
860 
854 
Stage 2
 
169,535 
1,753 
1,599 
1,276 
2,418 
6,189 
1 Allowance for ECL sensitivity includes off-balance sheet financial instruments. These are subject to significant measurement uncertainty.
2 Includes low credit-risk financial instruments such as debt instruments at FVOCI, which have high carrying amounts but low ECL under all the above scenarios. 
3 Excludes defaulted obligors. For a detailed breakdown of performing and non-performing wholesale portfolio exposures, see page 170.
4 Staging refers only to probability-weighted/reported gross carrying amount. Stage allocation of gross exposures varies by scenario, with higher allocation to stage 
2 under the Downside 2 scenario. 
5
Includes small portfolios that use less complex modelling approaches and are not sensitive to macroeconomic changes.
6 Classified as held for sale at 31 December 2023.
7 Includes the Argentina and Armenia businesses, which were sold in 2024.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
157
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

At 31 December 2024, the highest level of 100% scenario-weighted 
allowance for ECL was observed in the UK and Hong Kong under the 
Downside 2 scenario, driven primarily by a larger exposure to those 
geographies, namely in the real estate sector. In relation to the 
underlying exposure, mainland China and Mexico have the higher 
Downside 2 ECL coverage, mostly due to the relatively larger 
proportion of higher risk exposures in those geographies.
Compared with 31 December 2023, the Downside 2 ECL impact 
reduced by $0.5bn mostly due to the sale of the Canada business 
while observing offsetting impacts driven by updates to our forward 
economic scenarios. 
In the wholesale portfolio, off-balance sheet financial instruments 
have a lower likelihood to be fully converted to a funded exposure at 
the point of default, and consequently the sensitivity of the allowance 
for ECL is lower in relation to its nominal amount, when compared 
with an on-balance sheet exposure with a similar risk profile.
Retail analysis
IFRS 9 ECL sensitivity to future economic conditions1
Reported gross 
carrying 
amount
Reported 
allowance for 
ECL
Consensus 
Central 
scenario 
allowance for 
ECL
Consensus 
Upside 
scenario 
allowance for 
ECL
Consensus 
Downside 
scenario 
allowance for 
ECL
Downside 2 
scenario 
allowance for 
ECL
By geography at 31 Dec 2024
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
UK
Mortgages
 
163,541 
126 
117 
107 
132 
288 
Credit cards
 
7,415 
280 
275 
265 
276 
447 
Other
 
8,249 
241 
233 
217 
243 
351 
Mexico
Mortgages
 
7,482 
165 
162 
155 
168 
215 
Credit cards
 
2,227 
337 
333 
330 
338 
423 
Other
 
3,722 
419 
416 
413 
422 
593 
Hong Kong
Mortgages
 
106,866 
5 
5 
4 
5 
10 
Credit cards
 
9,419 
293 
275 
268 
300 
770 
Other
 
6,210 
106 
102 
101 
105 
249 
UAE
Mortgages
 
1,993 
8 
8 
8 
8 
8 
Credit cards
 
536 
31 
31 
31 
31 
35 
Other
 
688 
17 
17 
17 
17 
19 
US
Mortgages
 
16,965 
6 
6 
6 
6 
8 
Credit cards
 
193 
15 
14 
14 
15 
17 
Other geographies
Mortgages
 
51,064 
131 
127 
124 
136 
180 
Credit cards
 
3,500 
162 
159 
156 
164 
223 
Other
 
2,292 
72 
72 
69 
73 
93 
Total
 
392,361 
2,413 
2,351 
2,285 
2,440 
3,928 
of which: mortgages
 
347,910 
440 
425 
405 
456 
708 
Stage 1
 
311,875 
51 
47 
43 
58 
129 
Stage 2
 
33,761 
126 
117 
107 
129 
275 
Stage 3
 
2,274 
263 
261 
255 
269 
304 
of which: credit cards 
 
23,290 
1,116 
1,086 
1,064 
1,124 
1,915 
Stage 1
 
19,915 
276 
267 
258 
284 
701 
Stage 2
 
3,107 
655 
634 
621 
656 
1,027 
Stage 3
 
267 
185 
185 
185 
185 
188 
of which: others
 
21,161 
856 
839 
816 
860 
1,305 
Stage 1
 
18,574 
216 
204 
193 
217 
532 
Stage 2
 
2,005 
360 
355 
343 
363 
483 
Stage 3
 
583 
279 
279 
279 
279 
290 
Risk review
158
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

IFRS 9 ECL sensitivity to future economic conditions1,2
Reported gross 
carrying amount
Reported 
allowance for 
ECL
Consensus 
Central scenario 
allowance for 
ECL
Consensus 
Upside scenario 
allowance for 
ECL
Consensus 
Downside 
scenario 
allowance for 
ECL
Downside 2 
scenario 
allowance for 
ECL
By geography at 31 Dec 2023
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
UK
Mortgages
 
161,127 
189 
180 
172 
201 
334 
Credit cards
 
7,582 
344 
340 
302 
353 
486 
Other
 
8,183 
341 
333 
273 
383 
515 
Mexico
Mortgages
 
8,666 
188 
180 
150 
235 
363 
Credit cards
 
2,445 
295 
286 
206 
376 
489 
Other
 
4,529 
513 
503 
426 
600 
731 
Hong Kong
Mortgages
 
106,136 
2 
2 
1 
3 
5 
Credit cards
 
9,128 
287 
239 
214 
395 
887 
Other
 
6,269 
109 
100 
88 
124 
256 
UAE
Mortgages
 
2,001 
25 
25 
25 
25 
25 
Credit cards
 
471 
24 
24 
22 
25 
32 
Other
 
721 
20 
20 
19 
21 
28 
France
Mortgages
 
20,589 
50 
50 
50 
51 
51 
Other
 
1,328 
44 
44 
43 
45 
48 
US
Mortgages
 
14,385 
8 
4 
3 
4 
10 
Credit cards
 
204 
15 
15 
10 
15 
16 
Canada
Mortgages
 
25,464 
67 
65 
64 
70 
99 
Credit cards
 
338 
13 
13 
12 
16 
15 
Other
 
1,368 
13 
13 
12 
14 
33 
Other geographies
Mortgages
 
55,368 
152 
149 
144 
158 
198 
Credit cards
 
3,655 
173 
166 
151 
202 
291 
Other
 
2,416 
91 
86 
83 
95 
137 
Total
 
442,373 
2,962 
2,835 
2,471 
3,411 
5,049 
of which: mortgages
 
393,736 
681 
655 
609 
747 
1,085 
Stage 1
 
347,874 
101 
92 
77 
145 
303 
Stage 2
 
43,451 
264 
249 
225 
280 
429 
Stage 3
 
2,412 
316 
314 
307 
322 
352 
of which: credit cards 
 
23,822 
1,150 
1,082 
918 
1,381 
2,217 
Stage 1
 
18,557 
249 
232 
180 
329 
604 
Stage 2
 
4,953 
707 
657 
546 
859 
1,415 
Stage 3
 
312 
193 
193 
192 
194 
197 
of which: others
 
24,815 
1,131 
1,098 
944 
1,283 
1,748 
Stage 1
 
19,551 
218 
205 
151 
272 
501 
Stage 2
 
4,542 
540 
519 
423 
636 
868 
Stage 3
 
722 
373 
373 
370 
375 
379 
1 Allowance for ECL sensitivities exclude portfolios utilising less complex modelling approaches.
2 Included balances and allowance for ECL which had been reclassified from ‘loans and advances to customers’ to ‘assets held for sale’ in the balance sheet at 
31 December 2023. This also included any balances and allowance for ECL which continued to be reported as personal lending in ‘loans and advances to 
customers’ that are in accordance with the basis of inclusion for retail sensitivity analysis. This includes the Canada, Argentina businesses and retail banking 
operations in France.
At 31 December 2024, the most significant level of allowance for ECL 
sensitivity was observed in the UK, Mexico and Hong Kong. Mortgages 
reflected the lowest level of allowance for ECL sensitivity across most 
markets given the significant levels of collateral relative to the exposure 
values. Credit cards and other unsecured lending across stages 1 and 2 
are more sensitive to economic forecasts and therefore reflected the 
highest level of allowance for ECL sensitivity during 2024. 
There was a reduction in the total sensitivity for ECL allowance in all 
scenarios compared with 31 December 2023, due to banking portfolio 
sales, reduction of management judgemental adjustments, model 
redevelopments and scenario evolution.
There is limited sensitivity in credit cards and other unsecured lending 
in stage 3 as levels of loss on defaulted exposures remain consistent 
through various economic conditions. The Downside 2 scenario is 
from the tail of the economic distribution where allowance for ECL is 
more sensitive based on historical experience and includes a 
macroeconomic-dependent stressed LGD for a limited number of 
portfolios. 
The reported gross carrying amount by stage is representative of the 
weighted scenario allowance for ECL. The allowance for ECL 
sensitivity to the other scenarios includes changes in allowance for 
ECL due to the levels of loss and the migration of additional lending 
balances in or out of stage 2.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
159
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Group ECL sensitivity results
The allowance for ECL of the scenarios and management judgemental 
adjustments is highly sensitive to movements in economic forecasts. 
Based upon the sensitivity tables presented above, if the Group allowance
for ECL balance was estimated solely on the basis of the Central scenario, 
Downside scenario or the Downside 2 scenario at 31 December 2024, it 
would increase/(decrease) as presented in the below table.
Total Group ECL at 31 December 2024
Retail1
Wholesale1
$bn 
$bn
Reported allowance for ECL
 
2.4 
2.2 
Scenarios
100% Consensus Central scenario
 
(0.1) 
(0.2) 
100% Consensus Upside scenario
 
(0.1) 
(0.6) 
100% Consensus Downside scenario
 
0.0 
0.7 
100% Downside 2 scenario 
 
1.5 
4.3 
Total Group ECL at 31 December 2023
Reported allowance for ECL
 
3.0 
2.5 
Scenarios
100% Consensus Central scenario
 
(0.1) 
(0.2) 
100% Consensus Upside scenario
 
(0.5) 
(0.7) 
100% Consensus Downside scenario
 
0.4 
0.8 
100% Downside 2 scenario
 
2.1 
4.5 
1 On the same basis as retail and wholesale sensitivity analysis.
At 31 December 2024, the Group allowance for ECL decreased in the 
retail portfolio by $0.6bn and decreased by $0.3bn in the wholesale 
portfolio, compared with 31 December 2023. 
There was also a reduction in allowance for ECL sensitivity across all 
scenarios within the retail and wholesale portfolios since 
31 December 2023, primarily as a result of the sale of our Canada 
banking business, the sale of our retail banking operations in France, 
and various other business sales during the first half of 2024. 
For the wholesale portfolio this was the main driver of the decrease in 
Downside 2 ECL sensitivity.
For the retail portfolios the ECL sensitivity decrease across all 
scenarios including the Downside 2 was also primarily due to the 
reduction of management judgemental adjustments, model 
redevelopments and scenario evolution.
Reconciliation from reported exposure and ECL to sensitised exposure and weighted ECL
Wholesale
Retail
Total
Gross carrying/ 
nominal amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross carrying/
nominal amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross carrying/
nominal amount
Allowance 
for ECL
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Included in sensitivity analysis
 
1,958,010 
(2,205) 
392,361 
(2,413) 
2,350,371 
(4,618) 
– Exclusions from sensitivity as described in the 
section above1
 
20,409 
(5,419) 
309,178 
(124) 
329,587 
(5,543) 
– Debt instruments measured at fair value through 
other comprehensive income2
 
(346,124) 
54 
— 
— 
(346,124) 
54 
– Performance guarantees2
 
(92,722) 
311 
— 
— 
(92,722) 
311 
– Other financial assets at amortised cost not 
presented as wholesale or personal lending, including 
held for sale2
 
(568,668) 
141 
(130) 
— 
(568,798) 
141 
– Other3
 
5,978 
(441) 
498 
(9) 
6,476 
(450) 
As reported in the Summary of credit risk 
(excluding debt instruments measured at FVOCI) by 
stage distribution and ECL coverage by industry 
sector at 31 Dec 2024
 
976,883 
(7,559) 
701,907 
(2,546) 
1,678,790 
(10,105) 
Other financial assets at amortised cost
 
828,580 
(92) 
Total reported in the Summary of credit risk 
(excluding debt instruments measured at FVOCI) by 
stage distribution and ECL coverage by industry 
sector at 31 Dec 2024
 
2,507,370 
(10,197) 
Risk review
160
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Reconciliation from reported exposure and ECL to sensitised exposure and weighted ECL (continued)
Wholesale
Retail
Total
Gross carrying/ 
nominal amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross carrying/
nominal amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross carrying/
nominal amount
Allowance 
for ECL
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Included in sensitivity analysis
 
1,990,378 
(2,507) 
442,373 
(2,962) 
2,432,751 
(5,469) 
– Exclusions from sensitivity as described in the 
section above1
 
17,024 
(6,237) 
308,569 
(93) 
325,593 
(6,330) 
– Debt instruments measured at fair value through 
other comprehensive income2
 
(302,348) 
97 
— 
— 
(302,348) 
97 
– Performance guarantees2
 
(93,312) 
35 
— 
— 
(93,312) 
35 
– Other financial assets at amortised cost not 
presented as wholesale or personal lending, including 
held for sale2
 
(579,534) 
93 
(41,129) 
174 
(620,663) 
267 
– Other3
 
2,704 
(84) 
(4,175) 
(11) 
(1,471) 
(95) 
As reported in the Summary of credit risk (excluding 
debt instruments measured at FVOCI) by stage 
distribution and ECL coverage by industry sector at 31 
Dec 2023
 
1,034,912 
(8,603) 
705,638 
(2,892) 
1,740,550 
(11,495) 
Other financial assets at amortised cost
 
960,271 
(422) 
Total reported in the Summary of credit risk (excluding 
debt instruments measured at FVOCI) by stage 
distribution and ECL coverage by industry sector at 31 
Dec 2023
 
2,700,821 
(11,917) 
1 Comprises wholesale defaulted obligors, retail portfolios utilising less complex modelling approaches, private banking and insurance.
2 The sensitivity analysis includes certain items reported in Other assets at amortised cost, which are not allocated to an industry in the credit tables. It also 
includes FVOCI and performance guarantees, which are presented separately in the credit tables.
3 Includes FX and other operational variances.
Reconciliations of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances 
for loans and advances to banks and customers including loan commitments 
and financial guarantees
The following disclosure provides a reconciliation by stage of the 
Group’s gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for loans and 
advances to banks and customers, including loan commitments and 
financial guarantees.
In addition, a reconciliation by stage of the Group’s gross carrying 
amount and allowances for loans and advances to banks and 
customers and a reconciliation by stage of the Group’s nominal 
amount and allowances for loan commitments and financial 
guarantees, were included in this section following adoption of the 
recommendations of the third report from The Taskforce on 
Disclosures about Expected Credit Losses (‘DECL’). 
Movements are calculated on a quarterly basis and therefore fully 
capture stage movements between quarters. If movements were 
calculated on a year-to-date basis they would only reflect the opening 
and closing position of the financial instrument.
The transfers of financial instruments represents the impact of stage 
transfers upon the gross carrying/nominal amount and associated 
allowance for ECL. 
The net remeasurement of ECL arising from transfer of stage 
represents the increase or decrease due to these transfers, for 
example, moving from a 12-month (stage 1) to a lifetime (stage 2) 
ECL measurement basis. Net remeasurement excludes the 
underlying customer risk rating (‘CRR’)/probability of default (‘PD’) 
movements of the financial instruments transferring stage. This is 
captured, along with other credit quality movements in the ‘changes 
to risk parameters – credit quality’ line item. 
Changes in ‘Net new and further lending/repayments’ represents the 
impact from volume movements within the Group’s lending portfolio 
and includes ‘New financial assets originated or purchased’, ‘assets 
derecognised (including final repayments)’ and ‘changes to risk 
parameters – further lending/repayment’.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
161
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for loans and advances to banks and customers including 
loan commitments and financial guarantees
(Audited)
Non-credit impaired
Credit impaired
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
POCI
Total
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
At 1 Jan 2024
 1,496,805 
(1,300) 
153,084 
(3,102) 
20,799 
(7,063) 
85 
(30) 1,670,773 
(11,495) 
Transfers of financial 
instruments:
 
(19,629) 
(1,259) 
6,652 
2,302 
12,977 
(1,043) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 1 to 
stage 2
 
(116,211) 
419 
116,211 
(419) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 2 to 
stage 1
 
98,731 
(1,627) 
(98,731) 
1,627 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers to stage 3
 
(2,799) 
16 
(12,230) 
1,321 
15,029 
(1,337) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 3
 
650 
(67) 
1,402 
(227) 
(2,052) 
294 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Net remeasurement of ECL 
arising from transfer of 
stage
 
— 
959 
— 
(831) 
— 
(144) 
— 
— 
— 
(16) 
Changes due to 
modifications not 
derecognised
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(25) 
— 
— 
— 
(25) 
— 
Net new and further 
lending/repayments
 
87,833 
(168) 
(37,731) 
589 
(5,246) 
1,689 
7 
(7) 
44,863 
2,103 
Changes to risk parameters 
– credit quality
 
— 
363 
— 
(1,773) 
— 
(3,945) 
— 
(11) 
— 
(5,366) 
Changes to models used 
for ECL calculation
 
— 
68 
— 
(4) 
— 
(20) 
— 
— 
— 
44 
Assets written off
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(4,459) 
4,459 
— 
— 
(4,459) 
4,459 
Credit-related modifications 
that resulted in 
derecognition
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Foreign exchange and 
others1, 2, 3
 
(75,322) 
105 
(6,107) 
145 
(223) 
(81) 
1 
(3) 
(81,651) 
166 
At 31 Dec 2024
 1,489,687 
(1,232) 
115,898 
(2,674) 
23,823 
(6,148) 
93 
(51) 1,629,501 
(10,105) 
ECL income statement 
change for the period
 
1,222 
 
(2,019) 
 
(2,420) 
 
(18) 
 
(3,235) 
Recoveries
 
260 
Others 
 
(158) 
Total ECL income 
statement change for the 
period
 
(3,133) 
1 Total includes $3.7bn of gross carrying loans and advances to customers and banks, which were classified to assets held for sale, and a corresponding allowance 
for ECL of $46m, reflecting business disposals as disclosed in Note 23 ‘Assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale’ on page 411.
2 Total includes $35.3bn of nominal amount and $21m of corresponding allowance for ECL related to derecognition of loan commitments and financial guarantees 
following the sale of our banking business in Canada during 2024.
3 Total includes $2.7bn of nominal amount related to derecognition of loan commitments and financial guarantees following the sale of our banking business in 
Argentina during 2024.
At 31 Dec 2024
12 months ended 
31 Dec 2024
Gross carrying/
nominal amount
Allowance for ECL
ECL charge
 
$m
$m
$m
As above
 
1,629,501 
(10,105) 
(3,133) 
Other financial assets measured at amortised cost
 
828,580 
(92) 
(114) 
Non-trading reverse purchase agreement commitments
 
49,289 
— 
— 
Performance and other guarantees not considered for IFRS 9
 
— 
— 
(173) 
Summary of financial instruments to which the impairment requirements in IFRS 9 are 
applied/Summary consolidated income statement
 
2,507,370 
(10,197) 
(3,420) 
Debt instruments measured at FVOCI
 
346,124 
(54) 
6 
Total allowance for ECL/total income statement ECL change for the period
n/a 
(10,251) 
(3,414) 
As shown in the previous table, the allowance for ECL for loans and 
advances to customers and banks and relevant loan commitments 
and financial guarantees decreased $1,390m during the period from 
$11,495m at 31 December 2023 to $10,105m at 31 December 2024.
This decrease was driven by:
–
$4,459m of assets written off; 
–
$2,103m relating to volume movements, which included the 
allowance for ECL associated with new originations, assets 
derecognised and further lending/repayment; 
–
foreign exchange and other movements of $166m; and
–
$44m of changes to models used for ECL calculation.
Risk review
162
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

These were partly offset by:
–
$5,366m relating to credit quality changes, including the credit 
quality impact of financial instruments transferring between 
stages; and
–
$16m relating to the net remeasurement impact of stage 
transfers.
The ECL charge for the period of $3,235m presented in the previous 
table consisted of $5,366m relating to credit quality changes,
including the credit quality impact of financial instruments transferring 
between stages and $16m relating to the net remeasurement impact 
of stage transfers.
This was partly offset by $2,103m relating to underlying net book 
volume movement and $44m in changes to models used for ECL 
calculation.
Summary views of the movement in wholesale and personal lending 
are presented on pages 173 and 185.
Reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for loans and advances to banks and customers including 
loan commitments and financial guarantees
(Audited)
Non-credit impaired
Credit impaired
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
POCI
Total
Gross 
exposure
Allowance/ 
provision 
for ECL
Gross 
exposure
Allowance/ 
provision 
for ECL
Gross 
exposure
Allowance/ 
provision 
for ECL
Gross 
exposure
Allowance/ 
provision 
for ECL
Gross 
exposure
Allowance/ 
provision 
for ECL
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
At 1 Jan 2023
 1,433,643 
(1,257) 177,223 
(3,710) 
21,207 
(6,949) 
129 
(38) 1,632,202 
(11,954) 
Transfers of financial instruments:
 
(18,948) 
(1,048) 
10,286 
2,228 
8,662 
(1,180) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 1 to 
stage 2
 (150,728) 
442 150,728 
(442) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 2 to 
stage 1
 
133,079 
(1,467) (133,079) 
1,467 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers to stage 3
 
(1,986) 
23 
(8,600) 
1,379 
10,586 
(1,402) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 3
 
687 
(46) 
1,237 
(176) 
(1,924) 
222 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Net remeasurement of ECL 
arising from transfer of stage
 
— 
917 
— 
(973) 
— 
(124) 
— 
— 
— 
(180) 
Net new and further lending/
repayments
 
77,693 
(185) 
(36,795) 
661 
(4,956) 
1,117 
(36) 
3 
35,906 
1,596 
Changes to risk parameters – 
credit quality
 
— 
307 
— 
(1,262) 
— 
(3,896) 
— 
21 
— 
(4,830) 
Changes to models used for ECL 
calculation
 
— 
(22) 
— 
46 
— 
7 
— 
— 
— 
31 
Assets written off
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(3,922) 
3,922 
— 
— 
(3,922) 
3,922 
Credit-related modifications that 
resulted in derecognition
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(119) 
95 
— 
— 
(119) 
95 
Foreign exchange and others1
 
4,417 
(12) 
2,370 
(92) 
(73) 
(55) 
(8) 
(16) 
6,706 
(175) 
At 31 Dec 2023
 1,496,805 
(1,300) 153,084 
(3,102) 
20,799 
(7,063) 
85 
(30) 1,670,773 
(11,495) 
ECL income statement change for 
the period
 
1,017 
 
(1,528) 
 
(2,896) 
 
24 
 
(3,383) 
Recoveries
 
268 
Others
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(195) 
Total ECL income statement 
change for the period
 
(3,310) 
1 Total includes $7.7bn of gross carrying loans and advances to customers and banks, which were classified to assets held for sale, and a corresponding allowance 
for ECL of $70m, reflecting business disposals as disclosed in Note 23 ‘Assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale’ on page 411.
(Audited)
At 31 Dec 2023
12 months ended 
31 Dec 2023
Gross carrying/
nominal amount
Allowance for 
ECL
ECL charge
 
$m
$m
$m
As above
 
1,670,773 
(11,495) 
(3,310) 
Other financial assets measured at amortised cost
 
960,271 
(422) 
(35) 
Non-trading reverse purchase agreement commitments
 
69,777 
— 
— 
Performance and other guarantees not considered for IFRS 9
 
— 
— 
(44) 
Summary of financial instruments to which the impairment requirements in IFRS 9 are 
applied/Summary consolidated income statement
 
2,700,821 
(11,917) 
(3,389) 
Debt instruments measured at FVOCI
 
302,348 
(97) 
(58) 
Total allowance for ECL/total income statement ECL change for the period
 n/a 
(12,014) 
(3,447) 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
163
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Reconciliation of changes in gross carrying amount and allowances for loans and advances to banks and customers 
Non-credit impaired
Credit impaired
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
POCI
Total
Gross 
carrying 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
At 1 Jan 2024
 920,863 
(1,140) 122,307 
(2,967) 
19,275 
(6,952) 
81 
(30) 
1,062,526 
(11,089) 
Transfers of financial instruments:
 (19,794) 
(1,227) 
7,344 
2,259 
12,450 
(1,032) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 1 to stage 2
 (90,611) 
404 
90,611 
(404) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 2 to stage 1
 
72,935 
(1,580) (72,935) 
1,580 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers to stage 3
 
(2,559) 
16 (11,512) 
1,310 
14,071 
(1,326) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 3
 
441 
(67) 
1,180 
(227) 
(1,621) 
294 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Net remeasurement of ECL arising 
from transfer of stage
 
— 
932 
— 
(801) 
— 
(144) 
— 
— 
— 
(13) 
Changes due to modifications not 
derecognised
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(25) 
— 
— 
— 
(25) 
— 
Net new and further lending/
repayments
 
52,439 
(161) (33,154) 
570 
(4,535) 
1,606 
7 
(7) 
14,757 
2,008 
Changes to risk parameters – credit 
quality
 
— 
361 
— 
(1,724) 
— 
(3,873) 
— 
(11) 
— 
(5,247) 
Changes to models used for ECL 
calculation
 
— 
66 
— 
(18) 
— 
(20) 
— 
— 
— 
28 
Assets written off
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(4,459) 
4,459 
— 
— 
(4,459) 
4,459 
Credit-related modifications that 
resulted in derecognition
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Foreign exchange and others1
 (27,236) 
82 
(3,051) 
133 
(89) 
(86) 
2 
(3) (30,374) 
126 
At 31 Dec 2024
 926,272 
(1,087) 
93,446 
(2,548) 
22,617 
(6,042) 
90 
(51) 
1,042,425 
(9,728) 
ECL income statement change for 
the period
 
1,198 
 
(1,973) 
 
(2,431) 
 
(18) 
 
(3,224) 
Recoveries
 
260 
Others 
 
(161) 
Total ECL income statement 
change for the period
 
(3,125) 
1 Total includes $3.7bn of gross carrying loans and advances to customers and banks, which were classified to assets held for sale, and a corresponding allowance 
for ECL of $46m, reflecting business disposals as disclosed in Note 23 ‘Assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale’ on page 411.
Reconciliation of changes in gross carrying amount and allowances for loans and advances to banks and customers (continued)
Non-credit impaired
Credit impaired
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
POCI
Total
Gross 
carrying 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
At 1 Jan 2023
 879,023 
(1,109) 140,816 
(3,518) 19,586 
(6,851) 
129 
(38) 1,039,554 
(11,516) 
Transfers of financial instruments:
 (19,276) 
(980) 11,250 
2,154 
8,026 
(1,174) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 1 to stage 2
 
(108,758) 
423 108,758 
(423) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 2 to stage 1
 90,655 
(1,382) (90,655) 
1,382 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers to stage 3
 (1,692) 
22 (7,975) 
1,367 
9,667 
(1,389) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 3
 
519 
(43) 
1,122 
(172) (1,641) 
215 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Net remeasurement of ECL arising 
from transfer of stage
 
— 
859 
— 
(934) 
— 
(118) 
— 
— 
— 
(193) 
Net new and further lending/
repayments
 55,024 
(210) (32,069) 
685 (4,233) 
1,026 
(40) 
3 
18,682 
1,504 
Changes to risk parameters – credit 
quality
 
— 
311 
— 
(1,292) 
— 
(3,804) 
— 
21 
— 
(4,764) 
Changes to models used for ECL 
calculation
 
— 
(17) 
— 
28 
— 
7 
— 
— 
— 
18 
Assets written off
 
— 
— 
— 
— (3,922) 
3,922 
— 
— 
(3,922) 
3,922 
Credit-related modifications that 
resulted in derecognition
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(119) 
95 
— 
— 
(119) 
95 
Foreign exchange and others1
 
6,092 
6 
2,310 
(90) 
(63) 
(55) 
(8) 
(16) 
8,331 
(155) 
At 31 Dec 2023
 920,863 
(1,140) 122,307 
(2,967) 19,275 
(6,952) 
81 
(30) 1,062,526 
(11,089) 
ECL income statement change for 
the period
 
943 
 
(1,513) 
 
(2,889) 
 
24 
 
(3,435) 
Recoveries
 
268 
Others
 
(203) 
Total ECL income statement 
change for the period
 
(3,370) 
1 Total includes $7.7bn of gross carrying loans and advances to customers and banks, which were classified to assets held for sale, and a corresponding allowance 
for ECL of $70m, reflecting business disposals as disclosed in Note 23 ‘Assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale’ on page 411.
Risk review
164
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Reconciliation of changes in nominal amount and allowances for loan commitments and financial guarantees
Non-credit impaired
Credit impaired
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
POCI
Total
Nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
At 1 Jan 2024
 575,942 
(160) 
30,777 
(135) 
1,524 
(111) 
4 
— 
608,247 
(406) 
Transfers of financial instruments: 
165 
(32) 
(692) 
43 
527 
(11) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 1 to
stage 2
 (25,600) 
15 
25,600 
(15) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 2 to
stage 1
 
25,796 
(47) (25,796) 
47 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers to stage 3
 
(240) 
— 
(718) 
11 
958 
(11) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 3
 
209 
— 
222 
— 
(431) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Net remeasurement of ECL 
arising from transfer of stage
 
— 
27 
— 
(30) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(3) 
Net new and further lending/
repayments
 
35,394 
(7) 
(4,577) 
19 
(711) 
83 
— 
— 
30,106 
95 
Changes to risk parameters – 
credit quality
 
— 
2 
— 
(49) 
— 
(72) 
— 
— 
— 
(119) 
Changes to models used for ECL 
calculation
 
— 
2 
— 
14 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
16 
Foreign exchange and others1,2
 (48,086) 
23 
(3,056) 
12 
(134) 
5 
(1) 
— 
(51,277) 
40 
At 31 Dec 2024
 563,415 
(145) 
22,452 
(126) 
1,206 
(106) 
3 
— 
587,076 
(377) 
ECL income statement change 
for the period
 
24 
 
(46) 
 
11 
 
— 
 
(11) 
Recoveries
 
— 
Others 
 
3 
Total ECL income statement 
change for the period
 
(8) 
1 Total includes $35.3bn of nominal amount and $21m of corresponding allowance for ECL related to derecognition of loan commitments and financial guarantees 
following the sale of our banking business in Canada during 2024.
2 Total includes $2.7bn of nominal amount related to derecognition of loan commitments and financial guarantees following the sale of our banking business in 
Argentina during 2024.
Reconciliation of changes in nominal amount and allowances for loan commitments and financial guarantees
Non-credit impaired
Credit impaired
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
POCI
Total
Nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
At 1 Jan 2023
 554,620 
(148) 
36,407 
(192) 
1,621 
(98) 
— 
— 592,648 
(438) 
Transfers of financial instruments: 
328 
(68) 
(964) 
74 
636 
(6) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 1 to
stage 2
 (41,970) 
19 
41,970 
(19) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 2 to
stage 1
 
42,424 
(85) (42,424) 
85 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers to stage 3
 
(294) 
1 
(625) 
12 
919 
(13) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 3
 
168 
(3) 
115 
(4) 
(283) 
7 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Net remeasurement of ECL 
arising from transfer of stage
 
— 
58 
— 
(39) 
— 
(6) 
— 
— 
— 
13 
Net new and further lending/
repayments
 
22,669 
25 
(4,726) 
(24) 
(723) 
91 
4 
— 
17,224 
92 
Changes to risk parameters – 
credit quality
 
— 
(4) 
— 
30 
— 
(92) 
— 
— 
— 
(66) 
Changes to models used for ECL 
calculation
 
— 
(5) 
— 
18 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
13 
Foreign exchange and others
 
(1,675) 
(18) 
60 
(2) 
(10) 
— 
— 
— 
(1,625) 
(20) 
At 31 Dec 2023
 575,942 
(160) 
30,777 
(135) 
1,524 
(111) 
4 
— 608,247 
(406) 
ECL income statement change 
for the period
 
74 
 
(15) 
 
(7) 
 
— 
 
52 
Recoveries
 
— 
Others
 
8 
Total ECL income statement 
change for the period
 
60 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
165
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Credit quality
Credit quality of financial instruments
(Audited)
We assess the credit quality of all financial instruments that are 
subject to credit risk. The credit quality of financial instruments is a 
point-in-time assessment of PD, whereas stages 1 and 2 are 
determined based on relative deterioration of credit quality since initial 
recognition for the majority of portfolios. Accordingly, for non-creditimpaired financial instruments, there is no direct relationship between 
the credit quality assessment and stages 1 and 2, although typically 
the lower credit quality bands exhibit a higher proportion in stage 2.
The five credit quality classifications provided below each encompass 
a range of granular internal credit rating grades assigned to wholesale 
and personal lending businesses and the external ratings attributed by 
external agencies to debt securities, as shown in the table on 
page 139.
Distribution of financial instruments by credit quality at 31 December 2024
(Audited)
Gross carrying/notional amount
Allowance 
for ECL/
other credit 
provisions
Net
Strong
Good
Satisfactory
Substandard
Credit 
impaired
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
In-scope for IFRS 9 ECL
Loans and advances to customers held at 
amortised cost
 515,266 193,080 
186,416 
22,906 
22,705 940,373 
(9,715) 930,658 
– personal
 360,317 
53,595 
27,774 
1,979 
3,560 447,225 
(2,524) 444,701 
– corporate and commercial
 114,504 118,785 
138,705 
20,224 
18,466 410,684 
(6,755) 403,929 
– non-bank financial institutions
 
40,445 
20,700 
19,937 
703 
679 
82,464 
(436) 
82,028 
Loans and advances to banks held at amortised 
cost 
 
92,621 
4,255 
5,040 
134 
2 102,052 
(13) 102,039 
Cash and balances at central banks 
 266,713 
949 
12 
— 
— 267,674 
— 267,674 
Hong Kong Government certificates of 
indebtedness 
 
42,293 
— 
— 
— 
— 
42,293 
— 
42,293 
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
 155,831 
70,877 
25,799 
42 
— 252,549 
— 252,549 
Financial investments
 146,970 
3,681 
3,331 
— 
— 153,982 
(9) 153,973 
Assets held for sale
 
2,425 
458 
367 
1 
22 
3,273 
(4) 
3,269 
Other assets
 
88,338 
9,735 
10,151 
454 
131 108,809 
(79) 108,730 
– endorsements and acceptances
 
2,101 
2,663 
3,090 
243 
10 
8,107 
(14) 
8,093 
– accrued income and other
 
86,237 
7,072 
7,061 
211 
121 100,702 
(65) 100,637 
Debt instruments measured at fair value 
through other comprehensive income1
 336,313 
9,448 
7,768 
380 
— 353,909 
(54) 353,855 
Out-of-scope for IFRS 9 ECL
Trading assets
 119,546 
21,951 
15,804 
2,300 
47 159,648 
— 159,648 
Other financial assets designated and otherwise 
mandatorily measured at fair value through profit 
or loss 
 
53,282 
11,862 
4,390 
231 
11 
69,776 
— 
69,776 
Derivatives
 224,870 
34,124 
9,373 
258 
12 268,637 
— 268,637 
Assets held for sale
 
3,019 
— 
— 
— 
— 
3,019 
— 
3,019 
Total gross carrying amount on balance sheet 2,047,487 360,420 
268,451 
26,706 
22,930 2,725,994 
(9,874) 2,716,120 
Percentage of total credit quality (%)
 
75.1 
 
13.2 
 
9.9 
 
1.0 
 
0.8 
 
100 
Loan and other credit-related commitments
 400,120 131,396 
77,220 
9,670 
961 619,367 
(348) 619,019 
Financial guarantees
 
7,365 
4,263 
4,399 
723 
248 
16,998 
(29) 
16,969 
In-scope: Irrevocable loan commitments and 
financial guarantees
 407,485 135,659 
81,619 
10,393 
1,209 636,365 
(377) 635,988 
Loan and other credit-related commitments
 
96,952 
76,340 
65,619 
2,847 
453 242,211 
— 242,211 
Performance and other guarantees
 
39,940 
32,956 
17,339 
1,671 
817 
92,723 
(312) 
92,411 
Out-of-scope: Revocable loan commitments 
and non-financial guarantees
 136,892 109,296 
82,958 
4,518 
1,270 334,934 
(312) 334,622 
1 For the purposes of this disclosure, gross carrying amount is defined as the amortised cost of a financial asset before adjusting for any loss allowance. As such, 
the gross carrying amount of debt instruments at FVOCI as presented above will not reconcile to the balance sheet as it excludes fair value gains and losses.
Risk review
166
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Distribution of financial instruments by credit quality at 31 December 2023
(Audited)
Gross carrying/notional amount
Allowance 
for ECL/
other credit 
provisions
Net
Strong
Good Satisfactory
Substandard
Credit 
impaired
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
In-scope for IFRS 9 ECL
Loans and advances to customers held at 
amortised cost
 
497,665 
206,476 
197,582 
28,532 
19,354 
949,609 
(11,074) 
938,535 
– personal
 
346,562 
62,656 
32,314 
2,485 
3,505 
447,522 
(2,867) 
444,655 
– corporate and commercial
 
118,123 
123,713 
145,249 
25,531 
15,039 
427,655 
(7,803) 
419,852 
– non-bank financial institutions
 
32,980 
20,107 
20,019 
516 
810 
74,432 
(404) 
74,028 
Loans and advances to banks held at amortised 
cost 
 
101,057 
4,640 
6,363 
855 
2 
112,917 
(15) 
112,902 
Cash and balances at central banks 
 
284,723 
1,068 
77 
— 
— 
285,868 
— 
285,868 
Hong Kong Government certificates of 
indebtedness 
 
42,024 
— 
— 
— 
— 
42,024 
— 
42,024 
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
 
170,494 
46,884 
34,206 
633 
— 
252,217 
— 
252,217 
Financial investments
 
143,333 
3,814 
1,137 
62 
— 
148,346 
(20) 
148,326 
Assets held for sale
 
68,501 
16,403 
14,812 
2,939 
531 
103,186 
(324) 
102,862 
Other assets
 
106,184 
11,982 
9,965 
366 
133 
128,630 
(78) 
128,552 
– endorsements and acceptances
 
2,405 
2,666 
2,707 
161 
18 
7,957 
(18) 
7,939 
– accrued income and other
 
103,779 
9,316 
7,258 
205 
115 
120,673 
(60) 
120,613 
Debt instruments measured at fair value through 
other comprehensive income1
 
288,959 
12,037 
7,897 
805 
5 
309,703 
(97) 
309,606 
Out-of-scope for IFRS 9 ECL
Trading assets
 
122,695 
20,595 
20,746 
1,326 
135 
165,497 
— 
165,497 
Other financial assets designated and otherwise 
mandatorily measured at fair value through profit 
or loss 
 
52,649 
11,517 
4,733 
84 
6 
68,989 
— 
68,989 
Derivatives
 
196,098 
27,377 
6,041 
187 
11 
229,714 
— 
229,714 
Assets held for sale
 
12,495 
— 
— 
— 
— 
12,495 
— 
12,495 
Total gross carrying amount on balance sheet
 
2,086,877 
362,793 
303,559 
35,789 
20,177 2,809,195 
(11,608) 2,797,587 
Percentage of total credit quality (%)
 
74.3 
 
12.9 
 
10.8 
 
1.3 
 
0.7 
 
100 
Loan and other credit-related commitments
 
436,359 
142,500 
73,230 
7,782 
1,144 
661,015 
(367) 
660,648 
Financial guarantees
 
7,700 
4,146 
4,080 
699 
384 
17,009 
(39) 
16,970 
In-scope: Irrevocable loan commitments and 
financial guarantees
 
444,059 
146,646 
77,310 
8,481 
1,528 
678,024 
(406) 
677,618 
Loan and other credit-related commitments
 
92,509 
77,891 
61,462 
3,896 
377 
236,135 
— 
236,135 
Performance and other guarantees
 
39,784 
32,231 
19,445 
1,853 
964 
94,277 
(145) 
94,132 
Out-of-scope: Revocable loan commitments and 
non-financial guarantees
 
132,293 
110,122 
80,907 
5,749 
1,341 
330,412 
(145) 
330,267 
1 For the purposes of this disclosure, gross carrying amount is defined as the amortised cost of a financial asset before adjusting for any loss allowance. As such, 
the gross carrying amount of debt instruments at FVOCI as presented above will not reconcile to the balance sheet as it excludes fair value gains and losses.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
167
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Distribution of financial instruments to which the impairment requirements in IFRS 9 are applied, by credit quality and stage allocation
(Audited)
Gross carrying/notional amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Net
Strong
Good
Satisfactory
Substandard
Credit 
impaired
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Loans and advances to customers at amortised cost
 
515,266 
193,080 
186,416 
22,906 
22,705 
940,373 
(9,715) 
930,658 
– stage 1
 
498,415 
170,420 
150,818 
4,767 
— 
824,420 
(1,078) 
823,342 
– stage 2
 
16,851 
22,660 
35,598 
18,139 
— 
93,248 
(2,546) 
90,702 
– stage 3
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
22,615 
22,615 
(6,040) 
16,575 
– POCI
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
90 
90 
(51) 
39 
Loans and advances to banks at amortised cost
 
92,621 
4,255 
5,040 
134 
2 
102,052 
(13) 
102,039 
– stage 1
 
92,528 
4,226 
4,981 
117 
— 
101,852 
(9) 
101,843 
– stage 2
 
93 
29 
59 
17 
— 
198 
(2) 
196 
– stage 3
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
2 
2 
(2) 
— 
– POCI
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Other financial assets measured at amortised cost
 
702,570 
85,700 
39,660 
497 
153 
828,580 
(92) 
828,488 
– stage 1
 
702,373 
85,032 
38,977 
239 
— 
826,621 
(64) 
826,557 
– stage 2
 
197 
668 
683 
258 
— 
1,806 
(5) 
1,801 
– stage 3
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
153 
153 
(23) 
130 
– POCI
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Loan and other credit-related commitments 
 
400,120 
131,396 
77,220 
9,670 
961 
619,367 
(348) 
619,019 
– stage 1
 
398,779 
125,956 
67,949 
4,547 
— 
597,231 
(137) 
597,094 
– stage 2
 
1,341 
5,440 
9,271 
5,123 
— 
21,175 
(121) 
21,054 
– stage 3
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
958 
958 
(90) 
868 
– POCI
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
3 
3 
— 
3 
Financial guarantees
 
7,365 
4,263 
4,399 
723 
248 
16,998 
(29) 
16,969 
– stage 1
 
7,352 
4,192 
3,625 
184 
— 
15,353 
(8) 
15,345 
– stage 2
 
13 
71 
774 
539 
— 
1,397 
(5) 
1,392 
– stage 3
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
248 
248 
(16) 
232 
– POCI
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
At 31 Dec 2024
 1,717,942 
418,694 
312,735 
33,930 
24,069 2,507,370 
(10,197) 
2,497,173 
Debt instruments at FVOCI1
– stage 1
 
336,264 
9,448 
7,290 
— 
— 
353,002 
(31) 
352,971 
– stage 2
 
49 
— 
478 
380 
— 
907 
(23) 
884 
– stage 3
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– POCI
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
336,313 
9,448 
7,768 
380 
— 
353,909 
(54) 
353,855 
Loans and advances to customers at amortised cost
 
497,665 
206,476 
197,582 
28,532 
19,354 
949,609 
(11,074) 
938,535 
– stage 1
 
478,422 
177,410 
147,940 
5,612 
— 
809,384 
(1,130) 
808,254 
– stage 2
 
19,243 
29,066 
49,642 
22,920 
— 
120,871 
(2,964) 
117,907 
– stage 3
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
19,273 
19,273 
(6,950) 
12,323 
– POCI
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
81 
81 
(30) 
51 
Loans and advances to banks at amortised cost
 
101,057 
4,640 
6,363 
855 
2 
112,917 
(15) 
112,902 
– stage 1
 
101,011 
4,631 
5,550 
287 
— 
111,479 
(10) 
111,469 
– stage 2
 
46 
9 
813 
568 
— 
1,436 
(3) 
1,433 
– stage 3
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
2 
2 
(2) 
— 
– POCI
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Other financial assets measured at amortised cost
 
815,259 
80,151 
60,197 
4,000 
664 
960,271 
(422) 
959,849 
– stage 1
 
814,776 
78,486 
53,095 
516 
— 
946,873 
(109) 
946,764 
– stage 2
 
483 
1,665 
7,102 
3,484 
— 
12,734 
(132) 
12,602 
– stage 3
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
664 
664 
(181) 
483 
– POCI
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Loan and other credit-related commitments
 
436,359 
142,500 
73,230 
7,782 
1,144 
661,015 
(367) 
660,648 
– stage 1
 
432,017 
135,192 
61,213 
2,527 
— 
630,949 
(153) 
630,796 
– stage 2
 
4,342 
7,308 
12,017 
5,255 
— 
28,922 
(128) 
28,794 
– stage 3
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
1,140 
1,140 
(86) 
1,054 
– POCI
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
4 
4 
— 
4 
Financial guarantees
 
7,700 
4,146 
4,080 
699 
384 
17,009 
(39) 
16,970 
– stage 1
 
7,497 
3,943 
3,204 
102 
— 
14,746 
(7) 
14,739 
– stage 2
 
203 
203 
876 
597 
— 
1,879 
(7) 
1,872 
– stage 3
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
384 
384 
(25) 
359 
– POCI
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
At 31 Dec 2023
 1,858,040 
437,913 
341,452 
41,868 
21,548 2,700,821 
(11,917) 
2,688,904 
Debt instruments at FVOCI1
– stage 1
 
288,909 
12,037 
7,579 
— 
— 
308,525 
(37) 
308,488 
– stage 2
 
50 
— 
318 
805 
— 
1,173 
(59) 
1,114 
– stage 3
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
5 
5 
(1) 
4 
– POCI
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
288,959 
12,037 
7,897 
805 
5 
309,703 
(97) 
309,606 
1 For the purposes of this disclosure, gross carrying amount is defined as the amortised cost of a financial asset before adjusting for any loss allowance. As such, 
the gross carrying amount of debt instruments at FVOCI as presented above will not reconcile to the balance sheet as it excludes fair value gains and losses.
Risk review
168
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Credit-impaired loans
(Audited)
We determine that a financial instrument is credit impaired and in 
stage 3 by considering relevant objective evidence, primarily whether:
–
contractual payments of either principal or interest are past due for 
more than 90 days;
–
there are other indications that the borrower is unlikely to pay, 
such as when a concession has been granted to the borrower for 
economic or legal reasons relating to the borrower’s financial 
condition; and
–
the loan is otherwise considered to be in default. If such 
unlikeliness to pay is not identified at an earlier stage, it is deemed 
to occur when an exposure is 90 days past due. Therefore, the 
 definitions of credit impaired and default are aligned as far as 
possible so that stage 3 represents all loans that are considered 
defaulted or otherwise credit impaired.
Forbearance
The following table shows the gross carrying amount and allowance 
for ECL of the Group’s holdings of forborne loans and advances to 
customers by industry sector and by stages. 
A summary of our current policies and practices for forbearance is set out in 
‘Credit risk management’ on page 139. 
Forborne loans and advances to customers at amortised cost by stage allocation
Performing forborne 
Non-performing forborne
Total forborne
Stage 2
Stage 3
POCI
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
Gross carrying amount
Personal
 
545 
1,424 
— 
1,969 
– first lien residential mortgages
 
266 
1,040 
— 
1,306 
–  second lien residential mortgages
 
1 
3 
— 
4 
–  guaranteed loans in respect of residential property
 
32 
7 
— 
39 
– other personal lending which is secured
 
— 
7 
— 
7 
–  credit cards
 
86 
87 
— 
173 
– other personal lending which is unsecured
 
147 
280 
— 
427 
– motor vehicle finance
 
13 
— 
— 
13 
Wholesale
 
4,325 
7,542 
85 
11,952 
– corporate and commercial
 
4,247 
7,351 
85 
11,683 
– non-bank financial institutions
 
78 
191 
— 
269 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
4,870 
8,966 
85 
13,921 
Allowance for ECL
Personal
 
(73) 
(305) 
— 
(378) 
– first lien residential mortgages
 
(12) 
(148) 
— 
(160) 
–  second lien residential mortgages
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
–  guaranteed loans in respect of residential property
 
(1) 
(1) 
— 
(2) 
– other personal lending which is secured
 
— 
(2) 
— 
(2) 
–  credit cards
 
(17) 
(45) 
— 
(62) 
– other personal lending which is unsecured
 
(38) 
(109) 
— 
(147) 
– motor vehicle finance
 
(5) 
— 
— 
(5) 
Wholesale
 
(461) 
(2,008) 
(51) 
(2,520) 
– corporate and commercial
 
(460) 
(1,972) 
(51) 
(2,483) 
– non-bank financial institutions
 
(1) 
(36) 
— 
(37) 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
(534) 
(2,313) 
(51) 
(2,898) 
Gross carrying amount
Personal
 
816 
1,282 
— 
2,098 
– first lien residential mortgages
 
530 
815 
— 
1,345 
–  second lien residential mortgages
 
1 
8 
— 
9 
–  guaranteed loans in respect of residential property
 
24 
20 
— 
44 
– other personal lending which is secured
 
1 
6 
— 
7 
–  credit cards
 
96 
83 
— 
179 
– other personal lending which is unsecured
 
155 
349 
— 
504 
– motor vehicle finance
 
9 
1 
— 
10 
Wholesale
 
5,848 
5,505 
68 
11,421 
– corporate and commercial
 
5,778 
5,459 
68 
11,305 
– non-bank financial institutions
 
70 
46 
— 
116 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
6,664 
6,787 
68 
13,519 
Allowance for ECL
Personal
 
(113) 
(307) 
— 
(420) 
– first lien residential mortgages
 
(50) 
(113) 
— 
(163) 
–  second lien residential mortgages
 
— 
(3) 
— 
(3) 
–  guaranteed loans in respect of residential property
 
— 
(2) 
— 
(2) 
– other personal lending which is secured
 
— 
(1) 
— 
(1) 
–  credit cards
 
(17) 
(46) 
— 
(63) 
– other personal lending which is unsecured
 
(43) 
(142) 
— 
(185) 
– motor vehicle finance
 
(3) 
— 
— 
(3) 
Wholesale
 
(259) 
(1,932) 
(28) 
(2,219) 
– corporate and commercial
 
(257) 
(1,920) 
(28) 
(2,205) 
– non-bank financial institutions
 
(2) 
(12) 
— 
(14) 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
(372) 
(2,239) 
(28) 
(2,639) 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
169
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Forborne loans and advances to customers by legal entities
HSBC UK 
Bank plc
HSBC Bank 
plc
The 
Hongkong 
and Shanghai 
Banking 
Corporation 
Limited
 HSBC 
Bank 
Middle 
East 
Limited 
 HSBC 
North 
America 
Holdings 
Inc. 
 Grupo 
Financiero 
HSBC, S.A. 
de C.V. 
Other 
trading 
entities
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Gross carrying amount 
Performing forborne
 
1,251 
1,506 
1,073 
10 
787 
201 
42 
4,870 
Non-performing forborne
 
2,231 
1,578 
3,698 
460 
464 
355 
265 
9,051 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
3,482 
3,084 
4,771 
470 
1,251 
556 
307 
13,921 
Allowance for ECL
Performing forborne
 
(101) 
(36) 
(296) 
(1) 
(52) 
(48) 
— 
(534) 
Non-performing forborne
 
(393) 
(464) 
(943) 
(196) 
(71) 
(127) 
(170) 
(2,364) 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
(494) 
(500) 
(1,239) 
(197) 
(123) 
(175) 
(170) 
(2,898) 
Gross carrying amount
Performing forborne
 
1,478 
2,081 
1,574 
31 
954 
503 
43 
6,664 
Non-performing forborne
 
1,936 
1,199 
2,250 
471 
430 
233 
336 
6,855 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
3,414 
3,280 
3,824 
502 
1,384 
736 
379 
13,519 
Allowance for ECL
Performing forborne
 
(75) 
(25) 
(142) 
(1) 
(43) 
(84) 
(2) 
(372) 
Non-performing forborne
 
(289) 
(400) 
(986) 
(225) 
(74) 
(126) 
(167) 
(2,267) 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
(364) 
(425) 
(1,128) 
(226) 
(117) 
(210) 
(169) 
(2,639) 
 
Wholesale lending
This section presents further disclosures related to wholesale lending. 
It provides details of the main legal entities, countries and customer 
classification that are driving the change observed in wholesale loans 
and advances to banks and customers, with the impact of foreign 
exchange separately identified.
This section also provides reconciliations of the opening 1 January 
2024 to 31 December 2024 closing gross carrying/nominal amounts 
and the associated allowance for ECL. Further granularity is also 
provided by stage, with data for our main legal entities presented for 
gross loans and advances to banks and customers, loan and other 
credit-related commitments and financial guarantees.
At 31 December 2024, wholesale lending for gross loans and 
advances to banks and customers of $595.2bn decreased by $19.8bn 
on a reported basis, compared with 31 December 2023. Excluding 
adverse foreign exchange movements of $16.3bn, total wholesale 
lending decreased by $3.5bn. 
On a constant currency basis, the wholesale loans and advances to 
customers grew by $3.0bn, mainly driven by an increase in non-bank 
financial institutions (up $9.6bn), partly offset by a decrease in 
corporate and commercial lending (down $6.6bn).
The increase in non-bank financial institutions of $9.6bn was largely 
driven by growth in balances in HSBC Bank plc (up $4.2bn), in our 
legal entities in Asia (up $2.2bn), in the US (up $1.2bn), in HSBC UK 
(up $1.0bn) and in the Middle East (up $0.8bn).
The decrease in corporate and commercial balances of $6.6bn, mainly 
in our legal entities in the US (down $2.9bn) and in Asia (down 
$2.4bn), was driven by repayments, including in ‘real estate and 
construction’ and in HSBC Bank plc (down $0.7bn). Additionally, there 
was a decrease of $0.5bn from the sale of our business in Argentina.
On a constant currency basis, gross loans and advances to banks 
decreased by $6.5bn, mainly driven by lower central bank balances 
and money market lending balances in our legal entities in Asia (down 
$9.1bn) and a decrease of $0.6bn from the sale of our business in 
Argentina. This was partly offset by higher balances in our legal 
entities in the Middle East (up $3.6bn).
The decrease in stage 2 exposures on a constant currency basis 
(down $19.5bn) was mainly driven by maturities, repayments and 
new downgrades to stage 3 exposures, primarily in Asia. 
On a constant currency basis, stage 3 gross loans and advances to 
customers increased by $3.7bn, primarily driven by corporate and 
commercial exposure (up $3.8bn) driven by defaults in commercial 
real estate lending in Hong Kong, which are generally well 
collateralised. There was a decrease in the associated allowance for 
ECL due to write-offs of heavily-impaired exposures.
At 31 December 2024, the write-offs attributable to wholesale lending 
increased by $0.3bn to $2.9bn, compared with 31 December 2023.
The allowance for ECL attributable to loans and advances to banks 
and customers of $7.2bn at 31 December 2024 decreased by $1.0bn 
from $8.2bn at 31 December 2023. This included adverse foreign 
exchange movements of $0.2bn.
On a constant currency basis, the allowance for ECL attributable to 
corporate and commercial loans and advances decreased by $0.8bn, 
largely due to the write-offs of heavily-impaired exposures in ‘real 
estate and construction’, mainly in Hong Kong. The allowance for ECL 
attributable to loans and advances to non-bank financial institutions 
remained broadly stable.
On a reported basis, loan commitments and financial guarantees of 
$381.7bn decreased by $38.2bn compared with 31 December 2023. 
Excluding adverse foreign exchange movements of $14.0bn, financial 
nominal amounts decreased by $14.8bn, and corporate and 
commercial nominal amounts decreased by $9.4bn.
The allowance for ECL attributable to loan commitments and financial 
guarantees at 31 December 2024 remained unchanged at $0.4bn.
The table below provides a breakdown by industry sector and stage of 
the Group’s gross carrying amount and allowances for ECL for
wholesale loans and advances to banks and customers.
Counterparties or exposures are classified when presenting
comparable economic characteristics, or engaged in similar activities
so that their collective ability to meet contractual obligations is
uniformly affected by changes in economic, political or other
conditions. Therefore, the industry classification does not adhere to
Nomenclature des Activités Économiques dans la Communauté
Européenne (‘NACE’), which is applicable to other financial regulatory
reporting.
Risk review
170
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Total wholesale lending for loans and advances to banks and customers by stage distribution 
Gross carrying amount
Allowance for ECL
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
POCI
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
POCI
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Corporate and commercial
 
340,987 
51,231 
18,376 
90 410,684 
(463) 
(1,358) 
(4,883) 
(51) 
(6,755) 
– agriculture, forestry and fishing
 
5,437 
1,314 
282 
— 
7,033 
(14) 
(34) 
(46) 
— 
(94) 
– mining and quarrying
 
6,811 
463 
318 
— 
7,592 
(6) 
(7) 
(32) 
— 
(45) 
– manufacturing
 
70,987 
10,250 
1,466 
21 
82,724 
(83) 
(172) 
(618) 
(20) 
(893) 
– electricity, gas, steam and airconditioning supply
 
15,277 
971 
209 
— 
16,457 
(14) 
(23) 
(85) 
— 
(122) 
– water supply, sewerage, waste 
management and remediation
 
2,530 
388 
43 
— 
2,961 
(4) 
(4) 
(16) 
— 
(24) 
– real estate and construction
 
63,794 
17,320 
8,887 
62 
90,063 
(90) 
(666) 
(1,811) 
(31) 
(2,598) 
– of which: commercial real estate
 
49,994 
14,720 
7,558 
61 
72,333 
(67) 
(604) 
(1,355) 
(29) 
(2,055) 
– wholesale and retail trade, repair of 
motor vehicles and motorcycles
 
66,977 
8,125 
2,725 
3 
77,830 
(67) 
(117) 
(1,188) 
— 
(1,372) 
– transportation and storage
 
18,589 
3,637 
417 
— 
22,643 
(15) 
(74) 
(232) 
— 
(321) 
– accommodation and food
 
11,406 
1,718 
1,610 
— 
14,734 
(30) 
(55) 
(214) 
— 
(299) 
– publishing, audiovisual and 
broadcasting
 
18,181 
1,416 
229 
— 
19,826 
(42) 
(55) 
(61) 
— 
(158) 
– professional, scientific and technical 
activities
 
23,044 
2,436 
644 
4 
26,128 
(29) 
(49) 
(188) 
— 
(266) 
– administrative and support services
 
17,671 
1,707 
739 
— 
20,117 
(26) 
(40) 
(254) 
— 
(320) 
– public administration and defence, 
compulsory social security
 
64 
— 
— 
— 
64 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– education
 
1,361 
192 
43 
— 
1,596 
(4) 
(7) 
(16) 
— 
(27) 
– health and care
 
3,357 
489 
184 
— 
4,030 
(8) 
(18) 
(25) 
— 
(51) 
– arts, entertainment and recreation
 
1,817 
171 
78 
— 
2,066 
(5) 
(4) 
(26) 
— 
(35) 
– other services
 
6,470 
491 
327 
— 
7,288 
(24) 
(20) 
(66) 
— 
(110) 
– activities of households
 
582 
7 
— 
— 
589 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– extra-territorial organisations and 
bodies activities
 
118 
— 
— 
— 
118 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– government
 
6,495 
123 
175 
— 
6,793 
(2) 
— 
(5) 
— 
(7) 
– asset-backed securities
 
19 
13 
— 
— 
32 
— 
(13) 
— 
— 
(13) 
Non-bank financial institutions
 
79,687 
2,098 
679 
— 
82,464 
(45) 
(30) 
(361) 
— 
(436) 
Loans and advances to banks
 
101,852 
198 
2 
— 102,052 
(9) 
(2) 
(2) 
— 
(13) 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
522,526 
53,527 
19,057 
90 595,200 
(517) 
(1,390) 
(5,246) 
(51) 
(7,204) 
By legal entity
HSBC UK Bank plc
 
81,630 
12,772 
3,356 
— 
97,758 
(197) 
(403) 
(603) 
— 
(1,203) 
HSBC Bank plc1
 
85,022 
5,843 
2,305 
47 
93,217 
(54) 
(111) 
(752) 
(22) 
(939) 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited
 
279,535 
27,078 
11,483 
39 318,135 
(170) 
(677) 
(2,999) 
(28) 
(3,874) 
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited
 
26,359 
951 
848 
4 
28,162 
(20) 
(6) 
(463) 
(1) 
(490) 
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
 
30,107 
4,665 
503 
— 
35,275 
(31) 
(141) 
(121) 
— 
(293) 
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V.
 
11,957 
1,703 
230 
— 
13,890 
(35) 
(48) 
(128) 
— 
(211) 
Other trading entities1
 
7,840 
515 
332 
— 
8,687 
(10) 
(4) 
(180) 
— 
(194) 
Holding companies, shared service 
centres and intra-Group eliminations
 
76 
— 
— 
— 
76 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
522,526 
53,527 
19,057 
90 595,200 
(517) 
(1,390) 
(5,246) 
(51) 
(7,204) 
1 At 31 December 2023, Other trading entities included gross carrying amount of $1,792m related to Private Banking entities that were reclassified to HSBC Bank 
plc to continue the process of simplifying our structure in 2024 and gross carrying amount of $1,169m related to our business in Argentina which was sold on 
6 December 2024.
Total wholesale lending for loans and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees to banks and customers by stage distribution1
Nominal amount
Allowance for ECL
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
POCI
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
POCI
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Corporate and commercial
 241,249 
18,685 
1,033 
3 260,970 
(118) 
(121) 
(98) 
— 
(337) 
Financial 
 118,430 
2,196 
87 
— 120,713 
(10) 
(5) 
(3) 
— 
(18) 
At 31 Dec 2024
 359,679 
20,881 
1,120 
3 381,683 
(128) 
(126) 
(101) 
— 
(355) 
By legal entity
HSBC UK Bank plc
 
37,848 
4,540 
445 
— 
42,833 
(27) 
(36) 
(57) 
— 
(120) 
HSBC Bank plc
 144,941 
6,118 
256 
3 151,318 
(21) 
(30) 
(21) 
— 
(72) 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited
 
72,860 
3,973 
99 
— 
76,932 
(54) 
(32) 
(6) 
— 
(92) 
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited
 
8,879 
329 
35 
— 
9,243 
(5) 
(1) 
(10) 
— 
(16) 
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
 
91,314 
5,723 
226 
— 
97,263 
(20) 
(26) 
(5) 
— 
(51) 
HSBC Bank Canada
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V.
 
2,334 
53 
— 
— 
2,387 
(1) 
(1) 
— 
— 
(2) 
Other trading entities
 
1,503 
145 
59 
— 
1,707 
— 
— 
(2) 
— 
(2) 
At 31 Dec 2024
 359,679 
20,881 
1,120 
3 381,683 
(128) 
(126) 
(101) 
— 
(355) 
1 Included in loans and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees is $49bn relating to unsettled reverse repurchase agreements, which once 
drawn are classified as ‘Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading’.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
171
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Total wholesale lending for loans and advances to banks and customers by stage distribution (continued)
Gross carrying amount
Allowance for ECL
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
POCI
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
POCI
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Corporate and commercial
 
342,878 
69,738 
14,958 
81 
427,655 
(499) 
(1,500) 
(5,774) 
(30) 
(7,803) 
– agriculture, forestry and fishing
 
5,207 
1,662 
312 
— 
7,181 
(13) 
(53) 
(64) 
— 
(130) 
– mining and quarrying
 
6,260 
638 
325 
— 
7,223 
(7) 
(11) 
(83) 
— 
(101) 
– manufacturing
 
69,690 
13,744 
1,877 
22 
85,333 
(89) 
(194) 
(839) 
(21) 
(1,143) 
– electricity, gas, steam and airconditioning supply
 
12,817 
1,283 
255 
— 
14,355 
(14) 
(17) 
(88) 
— 
(119) 
– water supply, sewerage, waste 
management and remediation
 
2,753 
407 
102 
— 
3,262 
(5) 
(7) 
(51) 
— 
(63) 
– real estate and construction
 
73,701 
21,871 
5,835 
48 
101,455 
(96) 
(629) 
(2,554) 
(7) 
(3,286) 
– of which: commercial real estate
 
59,883 
19,107 
4,552 
47 
83,589 
(73) 
(603) 
(2,091) 
(7) 
(2,774) 
– wholesale and retail trade, repair of 
motor vehicles and motorcycles
 
66,083 
10,676 
2,358 
4 
79,121 
(80) 
(127) 
(1,132) 
(2) 
(1,341) 
– transportation and storage
 
17,117 
3,894 
445 
— 
21,456 
(18) 
(52) 
(160) 
— 
(230) 
– accommodation and food 
 
9,681 
5,135 
1,058 
— 
15,874 
(27) 
(118) 
(112) 
— 
(257) 
– publishing, audiovisual and 
broadcasting
 
17,455 
2,066 
210 
— 
19,731 
(42) 
(81) 
(50) 
— 
(173) 
– professional, scientific and technical 
activities
 
22,686 
3,327 
733 
7 
26,753 
(32) 
(63) 
(306) 
— 
(401) 
– administrative and support services
 
19,055 
2,551 
597 
— 
22,203 
(31) 
(63) 
(174) 
— 
(268) 
– public administration and defence, 
compulsory social security
 
1,037 
5 
— 
— 
1,042 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– education
 
1,137 
277 
46 
— 
1,460 
(3) 
(8) 
(4) 
— 
(15) 
– health and care
 
3,245 
808 
183 
— 
4,236 
(9) 
(21) 
(26) 
— 
(56) 
– arts, entertainment and recreation
 
1,666 
196 
99 
— 
1,961 
(5) 
(6) 
(31) 
— 
(42) 
– other services
 
7,065 
972 
318 
— 
8,355 
(26) 
(37) 
(90) 
— 
(153) 
– activities of households
 
684 
10 
— 
— 
694 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– extra-territorial organisations and 
bodies activities
 
100 
1 
— 
— 
101 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– government
 
5,420 
202 
205 
— 
5,827 
(2) 
— 
(10) 
— 
(12) 
– asset-backed securities
 
19 
13 
— 
— 
32 
— 
(13) 
— 
— 
(13) 
Non-bank financial institutions
 
69,972 
3,650 
810 
— 
74,432 
(52) 
(30) 
(322) 
— 
(404) 
Loans and advances to banks
 
111,479 
1,436 
2 
— 
112,917 
(10) 
(3) 
(2) 
— 
(15) 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
524,329 
74,824 
15,770 
81 
615,004 
(561) 
(1,533) 
(6,098) 
(30) 
(8,222) 
By legal entity
HSBC UK Bank plc
 
76,793 
18,735 
3,769 
— 
99,297 
(213) 
(474) 
(593) 
— 
(1,280) 
HSBC Bank plc
 
82,025 
8,452 
2,673 
40 
93,190 
(69) 
(138) 
(1,035) 
(7) 
(1,249) 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited
 
287,876 
37,402 
7,077 
38 
332,393 
(185) 
(696) 
(3,349) 
(21) 
(4,251) 
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited
 
21,927 
1,598 
894 
3 
24,422 
(17) 
(11) 
(571) 
(2) 
(601) 
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
 
30,797 
5,712 
583 
— 
37,092 
(24) 
(145) 
(127) 
— 
(296) 
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V.
 
13,714 
1,186 
382 
— 
15,282 
(39) 
(56) 
(231) 
— 
(326) 
Other trading entities
 
11,164 
1,739 
392 
— 
13,295 
(14) 
(13) 
(192) 
— 
(219) 
Holding companies, shared service 
centres and intra-Group eliminations
 
33 
— 
— 
— 
33 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
524,329 
74,824 
15,770 
81 
615,004 
(561) 
(1,533) 
(6,098) 
(30) 
(8,222) 
 
Total wholesale lending for loans and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees by stage distribution1 (continued)
Nominal amount
Allowance for ECL
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
POCI
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
POCI
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Corporate and commercial
 
256,367 
22,218 
1,066 
4 
279,655 
(126) 
(125) 
(107) 
— 
(358) 
Financial 
 
135,039 
5,111 
103 
— 
140,253 
(11) 
(10) 
(2) 
— 
(23) 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
391,406 
27,329 
1,169 
4 
419,908 
(137) 
(135) 
(109) 
— 
(381) 
By legal entity
HSBC UK Bank plc
 
31,982 
5,760 
350 
— 
38,092 
(31) 
(32) 
(56) 
— 
(119) 
HSBC Bank plc
 
148,980 
9,466 
310 
4 
158,760 
(20) 
(27) 
(27) 
— 
(74) 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited
 
70,436 
3,975 
79 
— 
74,490 
(59) 
(39) 
(16) 
— 
(114) 
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited
 
6,944 
323 
56 
— 
7,323 
(4) 
(1) 
(3) 
— 
(8) 
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
 
101,067 
5,103 
248 
— 
106,418 
(14) 
(27) 
(1) 
— 
(42) 
HSBC Bank Canada
 
28,156 
2,461 
66 
— 
30,683 
(8) 
(8) 
(3) 
— 
(19) 
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V.
 
2,092 
34 
— 
— 
2,126 
(1) 
— 
— 
— 
(1) 
Other trading entities
 
1,749 
207 
60 
— 
2,016 
— 
(1) 
(3) 
— 
(4) 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
391,406 
27,329 
1,169 
4 
419,908 
(137) 
(135) 
(109) 
— 
(381) 
1 Included in loans and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees is $70bn relating to unsettled reverse repurchase agreements, which once 
drawn are classified as ‘Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading’.
Risk review
172
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Wholesale lending – reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for loans and advances to banks and 
customers including loan commitments and financial guarantees
(Audited)
Non-credit impaired
Credit impaired
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
POCI
Total
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowanc
e for ECL
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowanc
e for ECL
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowanc
e for ECL
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowanc
e for ECL
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowanc
e for ECL
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
At 1 Jan 2024
 
845,982 
(698) 
102,129 
(1,668) 
16,939 
(6,207) 
85 
(30) 
965,135 
(8,603) 
Transfers of financial 
instruments:
 
(17,606) 
(214) 
6,997 
825 
10,609 
(611) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 1 to 
stage 2
 
(70,991) 
173 
70,991 
(173) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 2 to 
stage 1
 
55,182 
(380) 
(55,182) 
380 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers to stage 3
 
(2,056) 
7 
(9,515) 
636 
11,571 
(643) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 3
 
259 
(14) 
703 
(18) 
(962) 
32 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Net remeasurement of ECL 
arising from transfer of stage
 
— 
214 
— 
(226) 
— 
(12) 
— 
— 
— 
(24) 
Net new and further lending/
repayments
 
58,044 
(151) 
(29,842) 
311 
(4,450) 
1,219 
7 
(7) 
23,759 
1,372 
Change to risk parameters – 
credit quality 
 
— 
112 
— 
(899) 
— 
(2,508) 
— 
(11) 
— 
(3,306) 
Changes to models used for 
ECL calculation
 
— 
39 
— 
105 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
144 
Assets written off
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(2,925) 
2,925 
— 
— 
(2,925) 
2,925 
Credit-related modifications 
that resulted in derecognition
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Foreign exchange and 
others1 2 3
 
(53,384) 
53 
(4,996) 
36 
4 
(153) 
1 
(3) 
(58,375) 
(67) 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
833,036 
(645) 
74,288 
(1,516) 
20,177 
(5,347) 
93 
(51) 
927,594 
(7,559) 
ECL income statement 
change for the period
 
214 
 
(709) 
 
(1,301) 
 
(18) 
 
(1,814) 
Recoveries
 
40 
Others
 
(126) 
Total ECL income statement 
change for the period
 
(1,900) 
1
Total includes $2.9bn of gross carrying loans and advances to customers and banks, which were classified to assets held for sale during the year, and a 
corresponding allowance for ECL of $23m, reflecting business disposals as disclosed in Note 23 ‘Assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups held for 
sale’ on page 411.
2 Total includes $28.9bn of nominal amount and $20m of corresponding allowance for ECL related to derecognition of loan commitments and financial guarantees 
following the sale of our banking business in Canada during 2024.
3 Total includes $0.3bn of nominal amount related to derecognition of loan commitments and financial guarantees following the sale of our banking business in 
Argentina during 2024.
As shown in the above table, the allowance for ECL for loans and 
advances to customers and banks and relevant loan commitments 
and financial guarantees decreased by $1,044m during the period 
from $8,603m at 31 December 2023 to $7,559m at 31 December 
2024.
This decrease was driven by:
–
$2,925m of assets written off;
–
$1,372m relating to volume movements, which included the 
allowance for ECL associated with new originations, assets 
derecognised and further lending/repayments; and
–
$144m relating to changes to models used for ECL calculation.
These were partly offset by:
–
$3,306m relating to credit quality changes, including the credit 
quality impact of financial instruments transferring between 
stages;
–
foreign exchange and other movements of $67m; and
–
$24m relating to the net remeasurement impact of stage 
transfers.
The ECL charge for the period of $1,814m presented in the previous 
table consisted of $3,306m relating to credit quality changes, 
including the credit quality impact of financial instruments transferring 
between stages and $24m relating to the net remeasurement impact 
of stage transfers. This was partly offset by $1,372m relating to 
underlying net book volume movement and $144m in changes to 
models used for ECL calculation.
During the period, there was a net transfer between stage 1 and 
stage 2 of $15,809m gross carrying/nominal amounts. It was primarily 
driven by our entities in Asia ($12,878m), mainly due to deterioration 
in the real estate and construction sectors, and in our main entity in 
the US ($1,986m) and Mexico ($1,805m), partly offset by 
improvements in the economic outlook that led to upgrades to stage 
1 exposures, primarily in our legal entities in the UK($3,077m).
A summary of basis of preparation is available on page 161.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
173
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Wholesale lending – reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for loans and advances to banks and
customers including loan commitments and financial guarantees
(Audited)
Non-credit impaired
Credit impaired
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
POCI
Total
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
At 1 Jan 2023
 
830,322 
(670) 124,660 
(2,205) 
17,068 
(6,144) 
129 
(38) 
972,179 
(9,057) 
Transfers of financial instruments: 
(16,804) 
(429) 
10,247 
1,141 
6,557 
(712) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 1 to 
stage 2
 
(93,511) 
172 
93,511 
(172) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 2 to 
stage 1
 
77,772 
(605) (77,772) 
605 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers to stage 3
 
(1,444) 
20 
(6,255) 
765 
7,699 
(785) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 3
 
379 
(16) 
763 
(57) 
(1,142) 
73 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Net remeasurement of ECL 
arising from transfer of stage
 
— 
354 
— 
(294) 
— 
(45) 
— 
— 
— 
15 
Net new and further lending/
repayments
 
43,282 
(138) (32,082) 
311 
(3,787) 
973 
(36) 
3 
7,377 
1,149 
Changes to risk parameters – 
credit quality
 
— 
203 
— 
(621) 
— 
(2,941) 
— 
21 
— 
(3,338) 
Changes to models used for ECL 
calculation
 
— 
(9) 
— 
25 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
16 
Assets written off
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(2,596) 
2,596 
 
(2,596) 
2,596 
Credit-related modifications that 
resulted in derecognition
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(119) 
95 
— 
— 
(119) 
95 
Foreign exchange and others1
 
(10,818) 
(9) 
(696) 
(25) 
(184) 
(29) 
(8) 
(16) 
(11,706) 
(79) 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
845,982 
(698) 102,129 
(1,668) 
16,939 
(6,207) 
85 
(30) 
965,135 
(8,603) 
ECL income statement change 
for the period
 
410 
 
(579) 
 
(2,013) 
 
24 
 
(2,158) 
Recoveries
 
42 
Others 
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(203) 
Total ECL income statement 
change for the period
 
(2,319) 
1 Total includes $13.5bn of gross carrying loans and advances to customers and banks, which were classified to assets held for sale during the year, and a 
corresponding allowance for ECL of $61m, reflecting business disposals as disclosed in Note 23 ‘Assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups held for 
sale’ on page 411.
Wholesale lending – distribution of financial instruments to which the impairment requirements of IFRS 9 are applied by credit quality 
Gross carrying amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Net
Strong
Good
Satisfactory
Substandard
Credit 
impaired
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
By legal entity
HSBC UK Bank plc
 
21,548 
30,317 
36,450 
6,087 
3,356 
97,758 
(1,203) 
96,555 
HSBC Bank plc
 
42,189 
21,755 
24,150 
2,771 
2,352 
93,217 
(939) 
92,278 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited
 
157,900 
69,084 
71,651 
7,978 
11,522 
318,135 
(3,874) 
314,261 
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited
 
15,854 
4,263 
6,927 
266 
852 
28,162 
(490) 
27,672 
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
 
6,095 
11,726 
13,967 
2,984 
503 
35,275 
(293) 
34,982 
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V.
 
1,476 
5,523 
5,974 
687 
230 
13,890 
(211) 
13,679 
Other trading entities
 
2,432 
1,072 
4,563 
288 
332 
8,687 
(194) 
8,493 
Holding companies, shared service centres and 
intra-Group eliminations
 
76 
— 
— 
— — 
76 
— 
76 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
247,570 
143,740 
163,682 
21,061 
19,147 
595,200 
(7,204) 
587,996 
Percentage of total credit quality (%)
 
41.6 
 
24.2 
 
27.5 
 
3.5 
 
3.2 
 
100.0 
By legal entity
HSBC UK Bank plc
 
20,777 
30,245 
36,206 
8,300 
3,769 
99,297 
(1,280) 
98,017 
HSBC Bank plc
 
41,149 
20,962 
24,164 
4,202 
2,713 
93,190 
(1,249) 
91,941 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited
 
165,255 
72,683 
78,566 
8,774 
7,115 
332,393 
(4,251) 
328,142 
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited
 
13,660 
3,082 
6,270 
513 
897 
24,422 
(601) 
23,821 
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
 
6,244 
13,668 
13,094 
3,503 
583 
37,092 
(296) 
36,796 
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V.
 
1,853 
6,543 
5,882 
622 
382 
15,282 
(326) 
14,956 
Other trading entities
 
3,189 
1,277 
7,449 
988 
392 
13,295 
(219) 
13,076 
Holding companies, shared service centres and 
intra-Group eliminations
 
33 
— 
— 
— 
— 
33 
— 
33 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
252,160 
148,460 
171,631 
26,902 
15,851 
615,004 
(8,222) 
606,782 
Percentage of total credit quality (%)
 
41.0 
 
24.1 
 
27.9 
 
4.4 
 
2.6 
 
100.0 
Risk review
174
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Our risk rating system facilitates the internal ratings-based approach under the Basel framework adopted by the Group to support calculation of 
our minimum credit regulatory capital requirement. The credit quality classifications can be found on page 139.
Wholesale lending – credit risk profile by obligor grade for loans and advances at amortised cost
Gross carrying amount
Allowance for ECL
Basel one-year 
PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI
Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI
Total
ECL 
coverage
Mapped 
external rating
%
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
%
Corporate 
and 
commercial
 340,987 51,231 18,376 
90 410,684 
(463) (1,358) (4,883) (51) (6,755) 
 
1.6 
– CRR 1
0.000 to 0.053 32,564 
121 
— 
— 32,685 
(3) 
(5) 
— 
— 
(8) 
 
— 
AA- and above
– CRR 2
0.054 to 0.169 79,350 
2,469 
— 
— 81,819 
(25) 
(15) 
— 
— 
(40) 
 
— 
A+ to A– CRR 3
0.170 to 0.740 111,229 
7,556 
— 
— 118,785 
(103) 
(72) 
— 
— 
(175) 
 
0.1 
BBB+ to BBB– CRR 4
0.741 to 1.927 73,050 12,591 
— 
— 85,641 
(144) 
(99) 
— 
— 
(243) 
 
0.3 
BB+ to BB– CRR 5
1.928 to 4.914 40,391 12,673 
— 
— 53,064 
(158) 
(159) 
— 
— 
(317) 
 
0.6 
BB- to B
– CRR 6
4.915 to 8.860 
2,491 
7,436 
— 
— 
9,927 
(16) 
(190) 
— 
— 
(206) 
 
2.1 
B– CRR 7
8.861 to 15.000 
1,370 
3,735 
— 
— 
5,105 
(7) 
(172) 
— 
— 
(179) 
 
3.5 
CCC+
– CRR 8
15.001 to 99.999 
542 
4,650 
— 
— 
5,192 
(7) 
(646) 
— 
— 
(653) 
 
12.6 
CCC to C
– CRR 9/10
 
100.000 
— 
— 18,376 
90 18,466 
— 
— (4,883) (51) (4,934) 
 
26.7 
D
Non-bank 
financial 
institutions
 79,687 
2,098 
679 
— 82,464 
(45) 
(30) 
(361) 
— 
(436) 
 
0.5 
– CRR 1
0.000 to 0.053 19,516 
191 
— 
— 19,707 
(1) 
(1) 
— 
— 
(2) 
 
— 
AA- and above
– CRR 2
0.054 to 0.169 20,572 
166 
— 
— 20,738 
(5) 
— 
— 
— 
(5) 
 
— 
A+ to A– CRR 3
0.170 to 0.740 20,370 
330 
— 
— 20,700 
(12) 
(3) 
— 
— 
(15) 
 
0.1 
BBB+ to BBB– CRR 4
0.741 to 1.927 12,987 
502 
— 
— 13,489 
(16) 
(2) 
— 
— 
(18) 
 
0.1 
BB+ to BB– CRR 5
1.928 to 4.914 
6,058 
390 
— 
— 
6,448 
(11) 
(6) 
— 
— 
(17) 
 
0.3 
BB- to B
– CRR 6
4.915 to 8.860 
48 
319 
— 
— 
367 
— 
(8) 
— 
— 
(8) 
 
2.2 
B– CRR 7
8.861 to 15.000 
63 
79 
— 
— 
142 
— 
(1) 
— 
— 
(1) 
 
0.7 
CCC+
– CRR 8
15.001 to 99.999 
73 
121 
— 
— 
194 
— 
(9) 
— 
— 
(9) 
 
4.6 
CCC to C
– CRR 9/10
 
100.000 
— 
— 
679 
— 
679 
— 
— 
(361) 
— 
(361) 
 
53.2 
D
Banks
 101,852 
198 
2 
— 102,052 
(9) 
(2) 
(2) 
— 
(13) 
 
— 
– CRR 1
0.000 to 0.053 79,213 
53 
— 
— 79,266 
(3) 
— 
— 
— 
(3) 
 
— 
AA- and above
– CRR 2
0.054 to 0.169 13,315 
40 
— 
— 13,355 
(2) 
— 
— 
— 
(2) 
 
— 
A+ to A– CRR 3
0.170 to 0.740 
4,226 
29 
— 
— 
4,255 
(2) 
— 
— 
— 
(2) 
 
— 
BBB+ to BBB– CRR 4
0.741 to 1.927 
3,275 
12 
— 
— 
3,287 
(1) 
— 
— 
— 
(1) 
 
— 
BB+ to BB– CRR 5
1.928 to 4.914 
1,706 
47 
— 
— 
1,753 
(1) 
(1) 
— 
— 
(2) 
 
0.1 
BB- to B
– CRR 6
4.915 to 8.860 
10 
1 
— 
— 
11 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
 
— 
B– CRR 7
8.861 to 15.000 
107 
13 
— 
— 
120 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
 
— 
CCC+
– CRR 8
15.001 to 99.999 
— 
3 
— 
— 
3 
— 
(1) 
— 
— 
(1) 
 
33.3 
CCC to C
– CRR 9/10
 
100.000 
— 
— 
2 
— 
2 
— 
— 
(2) 
— 
(2) 
 
100.0 
D
At 31 Dec 
2024
 522,526 53,527 19,057 
90 595,200 
(517) (1,390) (5,246) (51) (7,204) 
 
1.2 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
175
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Wholesale lending – credit risk profile by obligor grade for loans and advances at amortised cost (continued)
Basel one-year 
PD range
Gross carrying amount
Allowance for ECL
ECL 
coverage
Mapped 
external rating
Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3
POCI
Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI
Total 
%
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
%
Corporate and
commercial
 
342,878 69,738 14,958 
81 
427,655 
(499) (1,500) (5,774) 
(30) (7,803) 
 
1.8 
– CRR 1
0.000 to 0.053 34,097 
715 
— 
— 34,812 
(4) 
(3) 
— 
— 
(7) 
 
— 
AA- and above
– CRR 2
0.054 to 0.169 81,131 
2,180 
— 
— 83,311 
(23) 
(14) 
— 
— 
(37) 
 
— 
A+ to A– CRR 3
0.170 to 0.740 
112,322 11,391 
— 
— 
123,713 
(106) 
(87) 
— 
— 
(193) 
 
0.2 
BBB+ to BBB– CRR 4
0.741 to 1.927 72,654 16,904 
— 
— 89,558 
(156) 
(130) 
— 
— 
(286) 
 
0.3 
BB+ to BB– CRR 5
1.928 to 4.914 37,631 18,060 
— 
— 55,691 
(169) 
(240) 
— 
— 
(409) 
 
0.7 
BB- to B
– CRR 6
4.915 to 8.860 
2,675 
7,341 
— 
— 10,016 
(24) 
(176) 
— 
— 
(200) 
 
2.0 
B– CRR 7
8.861 to 15.000 
1,031 
6,319 
— 
— 
7,350 
(10) 
(246) 
— 
— 
(256) 
 
3.5 
CCC+
– CRR 81
15.001 to 99.999 
1,337 
6,828 
— 
— 
8,165 
(7) 
(604) 
— 
— 
(611) 
 
7.5 
CCC to C
– CRR 9/10
 
100.000 
— 
— 14,958 
81 15,039 
— 
— (5,774) 
(30) (5,804) 
 
38.6 
D
Non-bank financial 
institutions
 69,972 
3,650 
810 
— 74,432 
(52) 
(30) 
(322) 
— 
(404) 
 
0.5 
– CRR 1
0.000 to 0.053 15,475 
211 
— 
— 15,686 
(2) 
— 
— 
— 
(2) 
 
— 
AA- and above
– CRR 2
0.054 to 0.169 16,920 
374 
— 
— 17,294 
(6) 
(2) 
— 
— 
(8) 
 
— 
A+ to A– CRR 3
0.170 to 0.740 19,195 
912 
— 
— 20,107 
(10) 
(4) 
— 
— 
(14) 
 
0.1 
BBB+ to BBB– CRR 4
0.741 to 1.927 11,480 
1,032 
— 
— 12,512 
(19) 
(5) 
— 
— 
(24) 
 
0.2 
BB+ to BB– CRR 5
1.928 to 4.914 
6,635 
872 
— 
— 
7,507 
(9) 
(15) 
— 
— 
(24) 
 
0.3 
BB- to B
– CRR 6
4.915 to 8.860 
232 
116 
— 
— 
348 
(6) 
(1) 
— 
— 
(7) 
 
2.0 
B– CRR 7
8.861 to 15.000 
25 
93 
— 
— 
118 
— 
(2) 
— 
— 
(2) 
 
1.7 
CCC+
– CRR 8
15.001 to 99.999 
10 
40 
— 
— 
50 
— 
(1) 
— 
— 
(1) 
 
2.0 
CCC to C
– CRR 9/10
 
100.000 
— 
— 
810 
— 
810 
— 
— 
(322) 
— 
(322) 
 
39.8 
D
Banks
 
111,479 
1,436 
2 
— 
112,917 
(10) 
(3) 
(2) 
— 
(15) 
 
— 
– CRR 1
0.000 to 0.053 89,112 
10 
— 
— 89,122 
(4) 
— 
— 
— 
(4) 
 
— 
AA- and above
– CRR 2
0.054 to 0.169 11,899 
36 
— 
— 11,935 
(2) 
— 
— 
— 
(2) 
 
— 
A+ to A– CRR 3
0.170 to 0.740 
4,631 
9 
— 
— 
4,640 
(1) 
— 
— 
— 
(1) 
 
— 
BBB+ to BBB– CRR 4
0.741 to 1.927 
2,488 
58 
— 
— 
2,546 
(1) 
— 
— 
— 
(1) 
 
— 
BB+ to BB– CRR 5
1.928 to 4.914 
3,062 
755 
— 
— 
3,817 
(2) 
(1) 
— 
— 
(3) 
 
0.1 
BB- to B
– CRR 6
4.915 to 8.860 
22 
20 
— 
— 
42 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
 
— 
B– CRR 7
8.861 to 15.000 
1 
— 
— 
— 
1 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
 
— 
CCC+
– CRR 8
15.001 to 99.999 
264 
548 
— 
— 
812 
— 
(2) 
— 
— 
(2) 
 
0.2 
CCC to C
– CRR 9/10
 
100.000 
— 
— 
2 
— 
2 
— 
— 
(2) 
— 
(2) 
 
100.0 
D
At 31 Dec 2023
 
524,329 74,824 15,770 
81 
615,004 
(561) (1,533) (6,098) 
(30) (8,222) 
 
1.3 
1 Corporate and commercial lending reported in CRR 8 for stage 1 includes $782m related to the UK Bounce Back Loan Scheme with immaterial allowances for 
ECL.
Wholesale lending – credit risk profile by obligor grade for loan and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees
Nominal amount
Allowance for ECL
Basel one-year 
PD range Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI
Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 POCI
Total
ECL 
coverage
Mapped 
external 
rating
%
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
%
Loan and 
other creditrelated 
commitments
 345,742 19,495 
872 
3 
366,112 
(120) 
(121) 
(85) 
— 
(326) 
 
0.1 
– CRR 1
0.000 to 0.053 92,090 
89 
— 
— 92,179 
(3) 
— 
— 
— 
(3) 
 
— AA- and above
– CRR 2
0.054 to 0.169 92,967 
1,009 
— 
— 93,976 
(12) 
(2) 
— 
— 
(14) 
 
— 
A+ to A– CRR 3
0.170 to 0.740 97,876 
5,051 
— 
— 
102,927 
(38) 
(15) 
— 
— 
(53) 
 
0.1 
BBB+ to BBB– CRR 4
0.741 to 1.927 40,135 
4,349 
— 
— 44,484 
(28) 
(22) 
— 
— 
(50) 
 
0.1 
BB+ to BB– CRR 5
1.928 to 4.914 18,581 
3,976 
— 
— 22,557 
(26) 
(22) 
— 
— 
(48) 
 
0.2 
BB- to B
– CRR 6
4.915 to 8.860 
1,828 
2,297 
— 
— 4,125 
(4) 
(22) 
— 
— 
(26) 
 
0.6 
B– CRR 7
8.861 to 15.000 
1,378 
678 
— 
— 2,056 
(1) 
(12) 
— 
— 
(13) 
 
0.6 
CCC+
– CRR 8
15.001 to 99.999 
887 
2,046 
— 
— 2,933 
(8) 
(26) 
— 
— 
(34) 
 
1.2 
CCC to C
– CRR 9/10
 
100.000 
— 
— 
872 
3 
875 
— 
— 
(85) 
— 
(85) 
 
9.7 
D
Financial 
guarantees
 13,937 
1,386 
248 
— 15,571 
(8) 
(5) 
(16) 
— 
(29) 
 
0.2 
– CRR 1
0.000 to 0.053 
1,895 
1 
— 
— 1,896 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
 
— AA- and above
– CRR 2
0.054 to 0.169 
4,326 
12 
— 
— 4,338 
(1) 
— 
— 
— 
(1) 
 
— 
A+ to A– CRR 3
0.170 to 0.740 
4,137 
71 
— 
— 4,208 
(2) 
— 
— 
— 
(2) 
 
— 
BBB+ to BBB– CRR 4
0.741 to 1.927 
2,106 
286 
— 
— 2,392 
(3) 
— 
— 
— 
(3) 
 
0.1 
BB+ to BB– CRR 5
1.928 to 4.914 
1,295 
478 
— 
— 1,773 
(2) 
(1) 
— 
— 
(3) 
 
0.2 
BB- to B
– CRR 6
4.915 to 8.860 
162 
232 
— 
— 
394 
— 
(1) 
— 
— 
(1) 
 
0.3 
B– CRR 7
8.861 to 15.000 
5 
128 
— 
— 
133 
— 
(2) 
— 
— 
(2) 
 
1.5 
CCC+
– CRR 8
15.001 to 99.999 
11 
178 
— 
— 
189 
— 
(1) 
— 
— 
(1) 
 
0.5 
CCC to C
– CRR 9/10
 
100.000 
— 
— 
248 
— 
248 
— 
— 
(16) 
— 
(16) 
 
6.5 
D
At 31 Dec 2024
 359,679 20,881 
1,120 
3 
381,683 
(128) 
(126) 
(101) 
— 
(355) 
 
0.1 
Risk review
176
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Wholesale lending – credit risk profile by obligor grade for loan and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees (continued)
Nominal amount
Allowance for ECL
Basel one-year 
PD range
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3 POCI
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3 POCI
Total
ECL 
coverage
Mapped 
external rating
%
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
%
Loan and other 
credit-related 
commitments
 377,766 25,463 
785 
4 
404,018 
(130) 
(128) 
(84) 
— 
(342) 
 
0.1 
– CRR 1
0.000 to 0.053 65,730 
1,676 
— 
— 67,406 
(5) 
(1) 
— 
— 
(6) 
 
— 
AA- and above
– CRR 2
0.054 to 0.169 152,224 
2,490 
— 
— 
154,714 
(13) 
(6) 
— 
— 
(19) 
 
— 
A+ to A– CRR 3
0.170 to 0.740 105,569 
6,044 
— 
— 
111,613 
(46) 
(24) 
— 
— 
(70) 
 
0.1 
BBB+ to BBB– CRR 4
0.741 to 1.927 38,102 
4,751 
— 
— 42,853 
(33) 
(20) 
— 
— 
(53) 
 
0.1 
BB+ to BB– CRR 5
1.928 to 4.914 14,054 
5,367 
— 
— 19,421 
(28) 
(31) 
— 
— 
(59) 
 
0.3 
BB- to B
– CRR 6
4.915 to 8.860 
1,170 
2,453 
— 
— 
3,623 
(4) 
(15) 
— 
— 
(19) 
 
0.5 
B– CRR 7
8.861 to 15.000 
780 
848 
— 
— 
1,628 
(1) 
(10) 
— 
— 
(11) 
 
0.7 
CCC+
– CRR 8
15.001 to 99.999 
137 
1,834 
— 
— 
1,971 
— 
(21) 
— 
— 
(21) 
 
1.1 
CCC to C
– CRR 9/10
 
100.000 
— 
— 
785 
4 
789 
— 
— 
(84) 
— 
(84) 
 
10.6 
D
Financial 
guarantees
 13,640 
1,866 
384 
— 15,890 
(7) 
(7) 
(25) 
— 
(39) 
 
0.2 
– CRR 1
0.000 to 0.053 
2,553 
1 
— 
— 
2,554 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
 
— 
AA- and above
– CRR 2
0.054 to 0.169 
4,212 
202 
— 
— 
4,414 
(1) 
— 
— 
— 
(1) 
 
— 
A+ to A– CRR 3
0.170 to 0.740 
3,584 
202 
— 
— 
3,786 
(2) 
— 
— 
— 
(2) 
 
0.1 
BBB+ to BBB– CRR 4
0.741 to 1.927 
1,932 
407 
— 
— 
2,339 
(2) 
(1) 
— 
— 
(3) 
 
0.1 
BB+ to BB– CRR 5
1.928 to 4.914 
1,266 
455 
— 
— 
1,721 
(2) 
(2) 
— 
— 
(4) 
 
0.2 
BB- to B
– CRR 6
4.915 to 8.860 
91 
387 
— 
— 
478 
— 
(1) 
— 
— 
(1) 
 
0.2 
B– CRR 7
8.861 to 15.000 
1 
76 
— 
— 
77 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
 
— 
CCC+
– CRR 8
15.001 to 99.999 
1 
136 
— 
— 
137 
— 
(3) 
— 
— 
(3) 
 
2.2 
CCC to C
– CRR 9/10
 
100.000 
— 
— 
384 
— 
384 
— 
— 
(25) 
— 
(25) 
 
6.5 
D
At 31 Dec 2023
 391,406 27,329 
1,169 
4 
419,908 
(137) 
(135) 
(109) 
— 
(381) 
 
0.1 
Commercial real estate
Commercial real estate (‘CRE’) lending includes the financing of 
corporate, institutional and high net worth customers who are 
investing primarily in income-producing assets and, to a lesser extent, 
in their construction and development. The portfolio has larger 
concentrations in Hong Kong, the UK and mainland China.
Our global exposure is centred largely on cities with economic, 
political or cultural significance. In more developed markets, our 
exposure mainly comprises the financing of investment assets, the 
redevelopment of existing stock and the augmentation of both 
commercial and residential markets to support economic and 
population growth. In less developed commercial real estate markets, 
our exposures comprise lending for development assets on relatively 
short tenors with a particular focus on supporting larger, bettercapitalised developers involved in residential construction or assets 
supporting economic expansion.
Excluding favourable foreign exchange movements of $1.1bn, 
commercial real estate lending decreased by $10.1bn, mainly from 
$6.4bn in our entities in Hong Kong due to loan repayments and writeoffs.
Commercial real estate lending to customers
of which:
HSBC 
UK 
Bank 
plc
HSBC 
Bank 
plc
The 
Hongkong 
and 
Shanghai 
Banking 
Corporation 
Limited
HSBC Bank 
Middle 
East 
Limited
HSBC 
North 
America 
Holdings 
Inc.
Grupo 
Financiero 
HSBC, S.A. 
de C.V.
Other 
trading 
entities
Total
UK
Hong 
Kong
of which:
Hong Kong 
excluding 
exposure to 
mainland 
China 
borrowers
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Gross loans 
and advances
Stage 1
 
9,394 
3,285 
34,337 
1,136 
1,420 
380 
42 49,994 9,758 
22,643 
22,132 
Stage 2
 
4,052 
313 
9,103 
— 
1,184 
67 
1 14,720 4,112 
7,619 
6,515 
Stage 3
 
492 
213 
6,451 
117 
240 
22 
23 7,558 
492 
5,967 
4,554 
POCI
 
— 
43 
18 
— 
— 
— 
— 
61 
43 
18 
— 
At 31 Dec 2024
 13,938 
3,854 
49,909 
1,253 
2,844 
469 
66 72,333 14,405 
36,247 
33,201 
– of which: 
 forborne loans
 
502 
54 
3,087 
116 
273 
19 
23 4,074 
545 
2,729 
Allowance for 
ECL
 
(203) 
(72) 
(1,627) 
(23) 
(103) 
(8) 
(19) (2,055) 
(227) 
(1,418) 
(405) 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
177
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Commercial real estate lending to customers (continued)
of which:
HSBC 
UK 
Bank 
plc
HSBC 
Bank 
plc
The 
Hongkong 
and Shanghai 
Banking 
Corporation 
Limited
HSBC Bank 
Middle East 
Limited
HSBC 
North 
America 
Holdings 
Inc.
Grupo 
Financiero 
HSBC, S.A. 
de C.V.
Other 
trading 
entities
Total
UK
Hong Kong
of which:
Hong Kong 
excluding 
exposure to 
mainland China 
borrowers
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Gross loans and 
advances
Stage 1
 10,304 4,218 
41,307 
1,126 
1,803 
685 
440 59,883 10,790 
28,846 
27,560 
Stage 2
 
3,262 
400 
13,229 
189 
1,956 
70 
1 19,107 3,294 
10,375 
8,681 
Stage 3
 
444 
184 
3,570 
145 
166 
25 
18 
4,552 
470 
3,226 
576 
POCI
 
— 
32 
15 
— 
— 
— 
— 
47 
32 
15 
— 
At 31 Dec 2023
 14,010 4,834 
58,121 
1,460 
3,925 
780 
459 83,589 14,586 
42,462 
36,817 
– of which: 
 forborne loans
 
461 
69 
2,454 
126 
433 
52 
— 
3,595 
519 
2,227 
Allowance for 
ECL
 
(148) 
(49) 
(2,399) 
(55) 
(98) 
(15) 
(10) (2,774) 
(172) 
(2,149) 
(296) 
of which:
HSBC UK 
Bank plc
HSBC 
Bank plc
The Hongkong 
and Shanghai 
Banking 
Corporation 
Limited
HSBC Bank 
Middle 
East 
Limited
HSBC North 
America 
Holdings Inc.
Grupo 
Financiero 
HSBC, S.A. 
de C.V.
Other 
trading 
entities
Total
UK
Hong 
Kong
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Wealth and 
Personal 
Banking1
 
325 
273 
37 
— 
2 
— 
— 
637 
469 
37 
Commercial 
Banking
 
13,613 
2,757 
33,551 
695 
2,842 
469 
66 
53,993 13,640 
24,473 
Global Banking 
and Markets
 
— 
824 
16,183 
558 
— 
— 
— 
17,565 
296 
11,599 
Corporate 
Centre
 
— 
— 
138 
— 
— 
— 
— 
138 
— 
138 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
13,938 
3,854 
49,909 
1,253 
2,844 
469 
66 
72,333 14,405 
36,247 
Wealth and 
Personal 
Banking1
 
409 
377 
66 
— 
2 
— 
423 
1,277 
409 
66 
Commercial 
Banking
 
13,601 
3,322 
37,826 
733 
3,923 
780 
36 
60,221 13,686 
27,811 
Global Banking 
and Markets
 
— 
1,135 
20,066 
727 
— 
— 
— 
21,928 
491 
14,444 
Corporate 
Centre
 
— 
— 
163 
— 
— 
— 
— 
163 
— 
141 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
14,010 
4,834 
58,121 
1,460 
3,925 
780 
459 
83,589 14,586 
42,462 
Commercial real estate gross loans and advances to customers by global business
1 Comprised exclusively by exposures in Global Private Banking.
Risk review
178
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Commercial real estate gross loans and advances to customers by credit quality
of which:
HSBC 
UK 
Bank 
plc
HSBC 
Bank 
plc
The 
Hongkong 
and 
Shanghai 
Banking 
Corporation 
Limited
HSBC Bank 
Middle 
East 
Limited
HSBC 
North 
America 
Holdings 
Inc.
Grupo 
Financiero 
HSBC, S.A. 
de C.V.
Other 
trading 
entities
Total
UK
Hong 
Kong
of which: 
Hong Kong 
excluding 
exposure to 
mainland 
China 
borrowers
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Strong
 
4,663 
739 
9,106 
137 
— 
18 
42 
14,705 
4,875 
4,522 
4,484 
Good
 
2,098 
1,430 
16,113 
407 
566 
111 
— 
20,725 
2,107 
10,421 
9,754 
Satisfactory
 
5,770 
1,312 
13,556 
592 
1,423 
283 
— 
22,936 
5,948 
10,850 
10,716 
Sub-standard
 
915 
117 
4,665 
— 
615 
35 
1 
6,348 
940 
4,469 
3,693 
Credit impaired
 
492 
256 
6,469 
117 
240 
22 
23 
7,619 
535 
5,985 
4,554 
At 31 Dec 2024
 13,938 
3,854 
49,909 
1,253 
2,844 
469 
66 
72,333 14,405 
36,247 
33,201 
Strong
 
3,940 
740 
12,394 
255 
25 
65 
16 
17,435 
4,191 
6,527 
6,118 
Good
 
2,555 
2,054 
17,777 
246 
781 
130 
18 
23,561 
2,592 
12,004 
11,262 
Satisfactory
 
6,370 
1,642 
19,509 
634 
1,691 
500 
407 
30,753 
6,575 
16,290 
15,759 
Sub-standard
 
701 
182 
4,856 
180 
1,262 
60 
— 
7,241 
726 
4,400 
3,102 
Credit impaired
 
444 
216 
3,585 
145 
166 
25 
18 
4,599 
502 
3,241 
576 
At 31 Dec 2023
 14,010 
4,834 
58,121 
1,460 
3,925 
780 
459 
83,589 14,586 
42,462 
36,817 
The Hong Kong CRE portfolio (excluding exposure to mainland China 
borrowers) saw negative credit migration in 2024 as a result of higher 
interest rates, high inventory levels and weak demand. This was 
predominantly driven by a deterioration in the secured portfolio as 
borrowers sought payment deferrals to accommodate debt 
serviceability challenges. 
Secured exposures account for 54% of the total portfolio 
(31 December 2023: 54%), with collateral values regularly updated in 
line with our existing practice. The trend of loan right-sizing and 
borrower deleveraging within the secured portfolio has supported 
good collateral coverage levels that continue to provide headroom in 
the event of a further softening of property valuations. As at 
31 December 2024, the weighted average LTV: 
–
of performing exposures rated ‘sub-standard’ was 46% 
(31 December 2023: 54%);
–
of ‘credit impaired’ exposures was 58% (31 December 2023: 
71%). This has driven relatively low levels of stage 3 allowance for 
ECL. The reduction in LTV reflects the significantly smaller 'credit 
impaired' portfolio at 31 December 2023.
The unsecured portfolio remained stable in size and quality, with 
limited levels of default and close to 90% rated Strong or Good. 
Unsecured exposures are typically granted to strong, listed Hong 
Kong CRE developers, which commonly are members of 
conglomerate groups with diverse cashflows. We continue to closely 
assess and manage the risk in the portfolio, including through 
portfolio reviews and stress testing. Vulnerable borrowers, including 
those with debt serviceability challenges and higher LTV levels, are 
subject to heightened monitoring and management.
Market conditions remain challenging, particularly for commercial 
property as a result of continued weakness in demand. The 
performance of the residential market remains mixed, with some 
initial improvement in sentiment and transaction levels observed in 
the fourth quarter of 2024, driven by a further easing of real estate 
regulatory policies in October and improved end-user affordability as 
prices and interest rates fell. Nevertheless, property price pressure is 
likely to persist in the near term and until economic conditions and 
sentiment improve. Given the more uncertain interest rate outlook, 
we expect broader market fundamentals to remain subdued and 
challenges in this sector to continue.
 
Refinance risk in commercial real estate
Commercial real estate lending tends to require the repayment of a 
significant proportion of the principal at maturity. Typically, a customer 
will arrange repayment through the acquisition of a new loan to settle 
the existing debt. Refinance risk is the risk that a customer, being 
unable to repay the debt on maturity, fails to refinance it at 
commercial terms. We monitor our commercial real estate portfolio 
closely, assessing indicators for signs of potential issues with 
refinancing.
Maturity analysis commercial real estate gross loans and advances to customers
of which:
HSBC UK 
Bank plc
HSBC 
Bank plc
The Hongkong 
and Shanghai 
Banking 
Corporation 
Limited
HSBC Bank 
Middle East 
Limited
HSBC North 
America 
Holdings Inc.
Grupo 
Financiero 
HSBC, S.A. 
de C.V.
Other 
trading 
entities
Total
UK 
Hong 
Kong
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
< 1 year
 
3,488 
846 
22,244 
455 
1,084 
111 
20 
28,248 
3,826 
18,204 
1–2 years
 
3,303 
876 
11,213 
162 
603 
142 
6 
16,305 
3,373 
7,196 
2–5 years
 
6,634 
1,600 
14,079 
447 
1,145 
143 
40 
24,088 
6,685 
9,254 
> 5 years
 
513 
532 
2,373 
189 
12 
73 
— 
3,692 
521 
1,593 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
13,938 
3,854 
49,909 
1,253 
2,844 
469 
66 
72,333 
14,405 
36,247 
 
< 1 year
 
3,553 
1,496 
25,427 
396 
1,472 
619 
437 
33,400 
3,950 
19,887 
1–2 years
 
4,514 
474 
14,144 
175 
623 
60 
2 
19,992 
4,571 
10,923 
2–5 years
 
5,411 
2,149 
16,052 
441 
1,814 
71 
3 
25,941 
5,520 
9,885 
> 5 years
 
532 
715 
2,498 
448 
16 
30 
17 
4,256 
545 
1,767 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
14,010 
4,834 
58,121 
1,460 
3,925 
780 
459 
83,589 
14,586 
42,462 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
179
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The following table presents the Group’s exposure to borrowers 
classified in the commercial real estate sector where the ultimate 
parent is based in mainland China, as well as all commercial real 
estate exposures booked on mainland China balance sheets. In 
addition to CRE as defined in our primary CRE disclosure above, this 
table includes financing provided to a corporate or financial entity for
the purchase or financing of a property which supports the overall 
operations of the business. This provides a more comprehensive view 
of our mainland China CRE exposures. The exposures at 
31 December 2024 are split by country/territory and credit quality 
including allowances for ECL by stage.
 
Mainland China commercial real estate
(Audited)
Hong Kong
Mainland China
Rest of the Group
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
Loans and advances to customers1
 
3,161 
3,694 
303 
7,158 
Guarantees issued and others2
 
80 
16 
5 
101 
Total mainland China commercial real estate exposure at 31 Dec 2024
 
3,241 
3,710 
308 
7,259 
Distribution of mainland China commercial real estate exposure by 
credit quality
Strong
 
118 
1,817 
109 
2,044 
Good
 
578 
595 
1 
1,174 
Satisfactory
 
196 
899 
49 
1,144 
Sub-standard
 
777 
136 
149 
1,062 
Credit impaired
 
1,572 
263 
— 
1,835 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
3,241 
3,710 
308 
7,259 
Allowance for ECL by credit quality
Strong
 
— 
(4) 
— 
(4) 
Good
 
— 
(3) 
— 
(3) 
Satisfactory
 
— 
(13) 
— 
(13) 
Sub-standard
 
(261) 
(30) 
(17) 
(308) 
Credit impaired
 
(749) 
(81) 
— 
(830) 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
(1,010) 
(131) 
(17) 
(1,158) 
Allowance for ECL by stage distribution
Stage 1
 
— 
(9) 
— 
(9) 
Stage 2
 
(261) 
(41) 
(17) 
(319) 
Stage 3
 
(743) 
(81) 
— 
(824) 
POCI
 
(6) 
— 
— 
(6) 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
(1,010) 
(131) 
(17) 
(1,158) 
ECL coverage %
 
31.2 
 
3.5 
 
5.5 
 
16.0 
Loans and advances to customers1
 
6,033 
4,917 
839 
11,789 
Guarantees issued and others2
 
255 
66 
37 
358 
Total mainland China commercial real estate exposure at 31 Dec 2023
 
6,288 
4,983 
876 
12,147 
Distribution of mainland China commercial real estate exposure by 
credit quality
Strong
 
781 
1,723 
6 
2,510 
Good
 
604 
953 
421 
1,978 
Satisfactory
 
679 
1,704 
261 
2,644 
Sub-standard
 
1,298 
327 
188 
1,813 
Credit impaired
 
2,926 
276 
— 
3,202 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
6,288 
4,983 
876 
12,147 
Allowance for ECL by credit quality
Strong
 
— 
(3) 
— 
(3) 
Good
 
— 
(5) 
(1) 
(6) 
Satisfactory
 
(3) 
(27) 
— 
(30) 
Sub-standard
 
(66) 
(87) 
(16) 
(169) 
Credit impaired
 
(1,726) 
(125) 
— 
(1,851) 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
(1,795) 
(247) 
(17) 
(2,059) 
Allowance for ECL by stage distribution
Stage 1
 
— 
(10) 
— 
(10) 
Stage 2
 
(69) 
(112) 
(17) 
(198) 
Stage 3
 
(1,726) 
(125) 
— 
(1,851) 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
(1,795) 
(247) 
(17) 
(2,059) 
ECL coverage %
 
28.5 
 
5.0 
 
1.9 
 
17.0 
1 Amounts represent gross carrying amount.
2 Amounts represent nominal amount for guarantees and other contingent liabilities.
Risk review
180
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

(Unaudited)
The mainland China commercial real estate portfolio continues to face 
challenges as market fundamentals remain weak and refinancing risks 
continue. The portfolio remains closely managed, with reductions in 
exposures driven by a combination of de-risking measures, 
repayments by performing customers and write-offs in the ‘credit 
impaired’ category.
The portfolio of mainland China CRE loans booked in Hong Kong 
remains relatively higher risk, with allowances for ECL substantially 
against unsecured exposures. For secured exposures, allowances for 
ECL are minimal, reflecting the nature and value of the security held.
Approximately half of the performing exposure in the mainland China 
CRE portfolio booked in Hong Kong is lending to state-owned 
enterprises and relatively strong privately-owned enterprises. This is 
reflected in the relatively low allowances for ECL in this part of the 
portfolio.
Mainland China real estate market activity remains depressed with 
continued weakness in underlying buyer demand for housing. Various 
government stimulus measures were introduced in 2024 to underpin 
market confidence. Despite some early signs of price stabilisation in 
certain cities, these measures have not yet triggered a meaningful 
recovery in transaction levels. Financing conditions and liquidity for 
borrowers operating in the real estate sector therefore remains 
constrained, particularly for privately-owned enterprises. A market 
recovery is likely to be protracted and contingent on further 
government support. 
The Group has additional exposures to mainland China commercial 
real estate as a result of lending to multinational corporates booked 
outside of mainland China, which is not incorporated in the table 
above.
Collateral and other credit enhancements
(Audited)
Although collateral can be an important mitigant of credit risk, it is the 
Group’s practice to lend on the basis of the customer’s ability to meet 
their obligations out of cash flow resources rather than placing 
primary reliance on collateral and other credit risk enhancements. 
Depending on the customer’s standing and the type of product, 
facilities may be provided without any collateral or other credit 
enhancements. For other lending, a charge over collateral is obtained 
and considered in determining the credit decision and pricing. In the 
event of default, the Group may utilise the collateral as a source of 
repayment.
Depending on its form, collateral can have a significant financial effect 
in mitigating our exposure to credit risk. Where there is sufficient 
collateral, an expected credit loss is not recognised. This is the case 
for reverse repurchase agreements and for certain loans and 
advances to customers where the loan to value (‘LTV’) is very low.
Mitigants may include a charge on borrowers’ specific assets, such as 
real estate or financial instruments. Other credit risk mitigants include 
short positions in securities and financial assets held as part of linked 
insurance/investment contracts where the risk is predominantly borne 
by the policyholder. Additionally, risk may be managed by employing 
other types of collateral and credit risk enhancements, such as 
second charges, other liens and unsupported guarantees. Guarantees 
are normally taken from corporates and export credit agencies. 
Corporates would normally provide guarantees as part of a parent/
subsidiary relationship and span a number of credit grades. The export 
credit agencies will normally be investment grade. 
Certain credit mitigants are used strategically in portfolio management 
activities. While single name concentrations arise in portfolios 
managed by Global Banking and Corporate Banking, it is only in Global 
Banking that their size requires the use of portfolio level credit 
mitigants. Across Global Banking, risk limits and utilisations, maturity 
profiles and risk quality are monitored and managed proactively. This 
process is key to the setting of risk appetite for these larger, more 
complex, geographically distributed customer groups. While the 
principal form of risk management continues to be at the point of 
exposure origination, through the lending decision-making process, 
Global Banking also utilises loan sales and credit default swap (‘CDS’) 
hedges to manage concentrations and reduce risk. 
These transactions are the responsibility of a dedicated Global 
Banking portfolio management team. Hedging activity is carried out 
within agreed credit parameters, and is subject to market risk limits 
and a robust governance structure. Where applicable, CDSs are 
entered into directly with a central clearing house counterparty. 
Otherwise, the Group’s exposure to CDS protection providers is 
diversified among mainly banking counterparties with strong credit 
ratings.
CDS mitigants are held at portfolio level and are not included in the 
expected credit loss calculations. CDS mitigants are not reported in 
the following tables.
Collateral on loans and advances
Collateral held is analysed separately for commercial real estate and 
for other corporate, commercial and financial (non-bank) lending. The 
following tables include off-balance sheet loan commitments, 
primarily undrawn credit lines.
The collateral measured in the following tables consists of fixed first 
charges on real estate, and charges over cash and marketable 
financial instruments. The values in the tables represent the expected 
market value on an open market basis, actual values realised are a 
function of market conditions. No adjustment has been made to the 
collateral for any expected costs of recovery. Marketable securities 
are measured at their fair value.
Other types of collateral, such as unsupported guarantees and floating 
charges over the assets of a customer’s business, are not measured 
in the following tables. While such mitigants have value, often 
providing rights in insolvency, their assignable value is not sufficiently 
certain and they are therefore assigned no value for disclosure 
purposes.
The LTV ratios presented are calculated by directly associating loans 
and advances with the collateral that individually and uniquely 
supports each facility. When collateral assets are shared by multiple 
loans and advances, whether specifically or, more generally, by way 
of an all monies charge, the collateral value is pro-rated across the 
loans and advances protected by the collateral.
For credit-impaired loans, the collateral values cannot be directly 
compared with impairment allowances recognised. The LTV figures 
use open market values with no adjustments, actual values realised 
are a function of market conditions. Impairment allowances are 
calculated on a different basis, by considering other cash flows and 
adjusting collateral values for costs of realising collateral as explained 
further on page 359.
Commercial real estate loans and advances
The value of commercial real estate collateral is determined by using 
a combination of external and internal valuations and physical 
inspections. For commercial real estate, where the facility exceeds 
regulatory threshold requirements, Group policy requires an 
independent review of the valuation at least every three years, or 
more frequently as the need arises.
In Hong Kong, market practice is typically for lending to major 
property companies to be either secured by guarantees or unsecured. 
In Europe, facilities of a working capital nature are generally not 
secured by a first fixed charge, and are therefore disclosed as not 
collateralised.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
181
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Gross carrying/nominal amount
ECL coverage
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
POCI
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
POCI
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
%
%
%
%
%
Not collateralised
 
36,168 
4,709 
1,704 
— 
42,581 
 
0.1 
 
9.0 
 
47.5 
 
— 
 
3.0 
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio
 
37,090 
11,909 
5,254 
— 
54,253 
 
0.1 
 
1.7 
 
7.8 
 
— 
 
1.2 
– less than 50%
 
20,522 
5,154 
2,413 
— 
28,089 
 
0.1 
 
1.7 
 
5.7 
 
— 
 
0.9 
– 51% to 75%
 
11,392 
3,840 
1,691 
— 
16,923 
 
0.1 
 
2.2 
 
7.6 
 
— 
 
1.3 
– 76% to 90%
 
2,554 
2,277 
767 
— 
5,598 
 
0.1 
 
0.9 
 
12.5 
 
— 
 
2.1 
– 91% to 100%
 
2,622 
638 
383 
— 
3,643 
 
0.2 
 
2.3 
 
12.3 
 
— 
 
1.8 
Partially collateralised (A): LTV > 100%
 
2,119 
698 
815 
64 
3,696 
 
0.2 
 
2.8 
 
19.7 
 
45.8 
 
5.8 
– collateral value on A
 
1,255 
457 
570 
29 
2,311 
Total at 31 Dec 2024
 
75,377 
17,316 
7,773 
64 100,530 
 
0.1 
 
3.8 
 
17.7 
 
45.8 
 
2.1 
of which: UK
Not collateralised
 
4,487 
1,890 
127 
— 
6,504 
 
0.4 
 
3.8 
 
27.8 
 
— 
 
1.9 
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio
 
9,139 
3,194 
305 
— 
12,638 
 
0.2 
 
1.1 
 
8.2 
 
— 
 
0.6 
– less than 50%
 
2,903 
761 
160 
— 
3,824 
 
0.2 
 
1.5 
 
8.0 
 
— 
 
0.8 
– 51% to 75%
 
4,202 
1,693 
69 
— 
5,964 
 
0.2 
 
1.2 
 
12.0 
 
— 
 
0.6 
– 76% to 90%
 
1,173 
732 
24 
— 
1,929 
 
0.1 
 
0.4 
 
10.2 
 
— 
 
0.3 
– 91% to 100%
 
861 
8 
52 
— 
921 
 
0.1 
 
7.7 
 
2.7 
 
— 
 
0.3 
Partially collateralised (B): LTV > 100%
 
503 
565 
119 
46 
1,233 
 
0.2 
 
2.9 
 
21.1 
 
48.6 
 
5.3 
– collateral value on B
 
296 
350 
69 
26 
741 
Total UK at 31 Dec 2024
 
14,129 
5,649 
551 
46 
20,375 
 
0.2 
 
2.2 
 
15.5 
 
48.6 
 
1.3 
of which: Hong Kong
Not collateralised
 
16,380 
2,312 
1,404 
— 
20,096 
 
— 
 
14.3 
 
47.9 
 
— 
 
5.0 
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio
 
17,115 
6,045 
4,127 
— 
27,287 
 
0.1 
 
1.4 
 
5.8 
 
— 
 
1.2 
– less than 50%
 
12,935 
3,589 
2,102 
— 
18,626 
 
0.1 
 
1.3 
 
3.8 
 
— 
 
0.7 
– 51% to 75%
 
3,534 
1,059 
1,243 
— 
5,836 
 
0.1 
 
2.2 
 
6.2 
 
— 
 
1.8 
– 76% to 90%
 
336 
1,050 
654 
— 
2,040 
 
0.1 
 
1.1 
 
11.8 
 
— 
 
4.4 
– 91% to 100%
 
310 
347 
128 
— 
785 
 
— 
 
0.5 
 
2.4 
 
— 
 
0.6 
Partially collateralised (C): LTV > 100%
 
185 
62 
562 
18 
827 
 
— 
 
1.9 
 
17.6 
 
38.1 
 
12.9 
– collateral value on C
 
119 
41 
397 
3 
560 
Total Hong Kong at 31 Dec 2024
 
33,680 
8,419 
6,093 
18 
48,210 
 
— 
 
4.9 
 
16.6 
 
38.1 
 
3.0 
Not collateralised
 
36,754 
5,128 
2,543 
— 
44,425 
 
0.1 
 
3.9 
 
72.4 
 
— 
 
4.7 
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio
 
46,212 
15,177 
1,963 
— 
63,352 
 
0.1 
 
2.5 
 
12.0 
 
— 
 
1.0 
– less than 50%
 
24,391 
7,413 
574 
— 
32,378 
 
0.1 
 
1.9 
 
13.1 
 
— 
 
0.7 
– 51% to 75%
 
16,086 
5,240 
657 
— 
21,983 
 
0.1 
 
3.1 
 
9.3 
 
— 
 
1.1 
– 76% to 90%
 
3,140 
1,437 
454 
— 
5,031 
 
0.1 
 
3.5 
 
11.8 
 
— 
 
2.1 
– 91% to 100%
 
2,595 
1,087 
278 
— 
3,960 
 
0.2 
 
2.3 
 
16.6 
 
— 
 
1.9 
Partially collateralised (A): LTV > 100%
 
7,075 
1,487 
156 
50 
8,768 
 
0.1 
 
1.8 
 
30.2 
 
14.5 
 
1.0 
– collateral value on A
 
4,004 
1,061 
115 
26 
5,206 
Total at 31 Dec 2023
 
90,041 
21,792 
4,662 
50 116,545 
 
0.1 
 
2.8 
 
45.6 
 
14.5 
 
2.4 
of which: UK
Not collateralised
 
4,644 
1,288 
97 
— 
6,029 
 
0.4 
 
2.0 
 
12.4 
 
— 
 
0.9 
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio
 
9,762 
2,512 
295 
— 
12,569 
 
0.1 
 
1.3 
 
13.9 
 
— 
 
0.7 
– less than 50%
 
3,514 
507 
51 
— 
4,072 
 
0.1 
 
1.9 
 
21.6 
 
— 
 
0.6 
– 51% to 75%
 
4,826 
1,418 
103 
— 
6,347 
 
0.1 
 
1.1 
 
16.4 
 
— 
 
0.6 
– 76% to 90%
 
749 
292 
80 
— 
1,121 
 
0.1 
 
1.3 
 
14.9 
 
— 
 
1.5 
– 91% to 100%
 
673 
295 
61 
— 
1,029 
 
0.1 
 
1.6 
 
1.9 
 
— 
 
0.6 
Partially collateralised (B): LTV > 100%
 
1,580 
239 
82 
35 
1,936 
 
0.1 
 
1.1 
 
34.2 
 
20.7 
 
2.0 
– collateral value on B
 
524 
171 
62 
17 
774 
Total UK at 31 Dec 2023
 
15,986 
4,039 
474 
35 
20,534 
 
0.2 
 
1.5 
 
17.1 
 
20.7 
 
0.9 
of which: Hong Kong
Not collateralised
 
16,889 
2,323 
2,215 
— 
21,427 
 
— 
 
6.5 
 
78.7 
 
— 
 
8.8 
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio
 
20,783 
8,447 
989 
— 
30,219 
 
— 
 
2.1 
 
5.0 
 
— 
 
0.8 
– less than 50%
 
15,425 
5,604 
294 
— 
21,323 
 
— 
 
1.5 
 
1.4 
 
— 
 
0.5 
– 51% to 75%
 
4,102 
2,140 
312 
— 
6,554 
 
0.1 
 
3.8 
 
2.1 
 
— 
 
1.4 
– 76% to 90%
 
657 
619 
315 
— 
1,591 
 
0.1 
 
1.8 
 
8.0 
 
— 
 
2.3 
– 91% to 100%
 
599 
84 
68 
— 
751 
 
— 
 
0.1 
 
20.5 
 
— 
 
1.9 
Partially collateralised (C): LTV > 100%
 
1,770 
616 
52 
15 
2,453 
 
— 
 
0.8 
 
24.5 
 
— 
 
0.7 
– collateral value on C
 
1,569 
535 
39 
8 
2,151 
Total Hong Kong at 31 Dec 2023
 
39,442 
11,386 
3,256 
15 
54,099 
 
— 
 
2.9 
 
55.5 
 
— 
 
4.0 
Wholesale lending – commercial real estate loans and advances to customers including loan commitments by level of collateral for key 
countries/territories (by stage)
(Audited)
Risk review
182
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Other corporate, commercial and financial (non-bank) loans and advances
Other corporate, commercial and financial (non-bank) loans are 
analysed separately in the following table, which focuses on the 
countries/territories containing the majority of our loans and advances 
balances. For financing activities in other corporate and commercial 
lending, collateral value is not strongly correlated to principal 
repayment performance.
Collateral values are generally refreshed when an obligor’s general 
credit performance deteriorates and we have to assess the likely 
performance of secondary sources of repayment should it prove 
necessary to rely on them. 
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
POCI
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
POCI
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
%
%
%
%
%
Not collateralised
 
713,028 
62,844 
6,870 
5 
782,747 
 
0.1 
 
0.9 
 
41.5 
 
14.2 
 
0.5 
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio
 
87,488 
11,992 
3,394 
21 
102,895 
 
0.1 
 
2.0 
 
8.0 
 
98.1 
 
0.6 
– less than 50%
 
39,432 
4,360 
1,703 
— 
45,495 
 
0.1 
 
1.6 
 
6.9 
 
— 
 
0.5 
– 51% to 75%
 
20,169 
4,643 
778 
21 
25,611 
 
0.1 
 
2.8 
 
12.0 
 
98.1 
 
1.0 
– 76% to 90%
 
9,016 
1,515 
512 
— 
11,043 
 
0.1 
 
1.6 
 
7.1 
 
— 
 
0.6 
– 91% to 100%
 
18,871 
1,474 
401 
— 
20,746 
 
— 
 
0.8 
 
6.3 
 
— 
 
0.2 
Partially collateralised (A): LTV > 100%
 
51,536 
5,772 
2,411 
3 
59,722 
 
0.1 
 
0.8 
 
34.3 
 
7.0 
 
1.5 
– collateral value on A
 
22,800 
2,519 
1,162 
1 
26,482 
Total at 31 Dec 2024
 
852,052 
80,608 
12,675 
29 
945,364 
 
0.1 
 
1.1 
 
31.2 
 
72.8 
 
0.6 
of which: UK
Not collateralised
 
134,075 
10,822 
2,661 
4 
147,562 
 
0.1 
 
2.5 
 
32.4 
 
— 
 
0.9 
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio
 
24,552 
3,046 
968 
— 
28,566 
 
0.1 
 
2.4 
 
5.8 
 
— 
 
0.6 
– less than 50%
 
9,183 
1,288 
473 
— 
10,944 
 
0.1 
 
2.2 
 
2.8 
 
— 
 
0.5 
– 51% to 75%
 
7,544 
1,216 
244 
— 
9,004 
 
0.1 
 
2.7 
 
7.0 
 
— 
 
0.7 
– 76% to 90%
 
2,942 
367 
129 
— 
3,438 
 
0.1 
 
2.3 
 
15.3 
 
— 
 
0.9 
– 91% to 100%
 
4,883 
175 
122 
— 
5,180 
 
0.1 
 
2.1 
 
5.3 
 
— 
 
0.3 
Partially collateralised (B): LTV > 100%
 
7,016 
1,055 
395 
— 
8,466 
 
0.2 
 
1.3 
 
10.8 
 
— 
 
0.8 
– collateral value on B
 
3,832 
581 
252 
— 
4,665 
Total UK at 31 Dec 2024
 
165,643 
14,923 
4,024 
4 
184,594 
 
0.1 
 
2.4 
 
23.9 
 
— 
 
0.8 
of which: Hong Kong
Not collateralised
 
117,849 
6,389 
1,313 
— 
125,551 
 
— 
 
0.6 
 
58.1 
 
— 
 
0.7 
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio
 
28,291 
5,866 
1,877 
21 
36,055 
 
0.1 
 
2.1 
 
5.3 
 
98.1 
 
0.7 
– less than 50%
 
14,500 
1,774 
903 
— 
17,177 
 
0.1 
 
1.4 
 
5.1 
 
— 
 
0.5 
– 51% to 75%
 
7,331 
2,766 
449 
21 
10,567 
 
0.1 
 
3.0 
 
8.3 
 
98.1 
 
1.4 
– 76% to 90%
 
2,896 
752 
372 
— 
4,020 
 
0.1 
 
1.9 
 
3.6 
 
— 
 
0.7 
– 91% to 100%
 
3,564 
574 
153 
— 
4,291 
 
— 
 
0.3 
 
1.7 
 
— 
 
0.1 
Partially collateralised (C): LTV > 100%
 
17,125 
1,535 
1,048 
— 
19,708 
 
— 
 
0.4 
 
46.8 
 
— 
 
2.6 
– collateral value on C
 
6,741 
627 
639 
— 
8,007 
Total Hong Kong at 31 Dec 2024
 
163,265 
13,790 
4,238 
21 
181,314 
 
— 
 
1.2 
 
31.9 
 
98.1 
 
0.9 
Not collateralised
 
672,142 
76,261 
7,702 
8 
756,113 
 
0.1 
 
0.9 
 
40.0 
 
6.8 
 
0.6 
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio
 
113,339 
19,747 
2,629 
23 
135,738 
 
0.1 
 
1.4 
 
10.7 
 
89.8 
 
0.5 
– less than 50%
 
42,953 
7,069 
1,168 
— 
51,190 
 
0.1 
 
1.5 
 
11.8 
 
— 
 
0.5 
– 51% to 75%
 
24,011 
8,222 
887 
— 
33,120 
 
0.1 
 
1.3 
 
6.4 
 
— 
 
0.6 
– 76% to 90%
 
10,194 
2,531 
421 
23 
13,169 
 
0.1 
 
1.6 
 
10.3 
 
90.6 
 
0.9 
– 91% to 100%
 
36,181 
1,925 
153 
— 
38,259 
 
— 
 
1.1 
 
27.6 
 
— 
 
0.2 
Partially collateralised (A): LTV > 100%
 
53,686 
9,019 
2,233 
3 
64,941 
 
0.1 
 
0.7 
 
32.2 
 
38.4 
 
1.3 
– collateral value on A
 
24,505 
4,266 
993 
1 
29,765 
Total at 31 Dec 2023
 
839,167 
105,027 
12,564 
34 
956,792 
 
0.1 
 
1.0 
 
32.5 
 
67.1 
 
0.6 
of which: UK
Not collateralised
 
117,824 
20,401 
3,423 
— 
141,648 
 
0.2 
 
1.9 
 
23.2 
 
— 
 
1.0 
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio
 
22,217 
5,912 
1,162 
— 
29,291 
 
0.1 
 
1.7 
 
3.7 
 
— 
 
0.6 
– less than 50%
 
7,385 
2,340 
601 
— 
10,326 
 
0.1 
 
1.2 
 
1.3 
 
— 
 
0.5 
– 51% to 75%
 
6,966 
2,292 
434 
— 
9,692 
 
0.1 
 
1.7 
 
3.6 
 
— 
 
0.7 
– 76% to 90%
 
2,256 
809 
106 
— 
3,171 
 
0.2 
 
2.5 
 
15.8 
 
— 
 
1.3 
– 91% to 100%
 
5,610 
471 
21 
— 
6,102 
 
0.1 
 
2.1 
 
14.5 
 
— 
 
0.3 
Partially collateralised (B): LTV > 100%
 
6,335 
1,732 
299 
— 
8,366 
 
0.2 
 
1.8 
 
18.4 
 
— 
 
1.2 
– collateral value on B
 
3,508 
1,080 
175 
— 
4,763 
Total UK at 31 Dec 2023
 
146,376 
28,045 
4,884 
— 
179,305 
 
0.2 
 
1.8 
 
18.3 
 
— 
 
0.9 
of which: Hong Kong
Not collateralised
 
114,025 
7,523 
906 
— 
122,454 
 
— 
 
0.4 
 
57.5 
 
— 
 
0.5 
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio
 
32,857 
8,918 
877 
22 
42,674 
 
0.1 
 
1.3 
 
6.6 
 
94.7 
 
0.5 
– less than 50%
 
16,175 
2,898 
230 
— 
19,303 
 
0.1 
 
1.4 
 
11.8 
 
— 
 
0.4 
– 51% to 75%
 
9,461 
4,515 
336 
— 
14,312 
 
0.1 
 
1.2 
 
3.1 
 
— 
 
0.5 
– 76% to 90%
 
4,245 
863 
253 
22 
5,383 
 
0.1 
 
1.8 
 
2.0 
 
94.7 
 
0.9 
– 91% to 100%
 
2,976 
642 
58 
— 
3,676 
 
— 
 
0.4 
 
27.0 
 
— 
 
0.5 
Partially collateralised (C): LTV > 100%
 
16,152 
2,887 
704 
— 
19,743 
 
— 
 
0.6 
 
30.2 
 
— 
 
1.2 
– collateral value on C
 
6,619 
1,306 
318 
— 
8,243 
Total Hong Kong at 31 Dec 2023
 
163,034 
19,328 
2,487 
22 
184,871 
 
0.1 
 
0.8 
 
31.8 
 
94.7 
 
0.6 
Wholesale lending – other corporate, commercial and financial (non-bank) loans and advances including loan commitments by level 
of collateral for key countries/territories (by stage)
(Audited)
Gross carrying/nominal amount
ECL coverage
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
183
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Other credit risk exposures
In addition to collateralised lending, other credit enhancements are 
employed and methods used to mitigate credit risk arising from 
financial assets. These are summarised below:
–
Some securities issued by governments, banks and other financial 
institutions benefit from additional credit enhancements provided 
by government guarantees that cover the assets.
–
Debt securities issued by banks and financial institutions include 
asset-backed securities (‘ABSs’) and similar instruments, which 
are supported by underlying pools of financial assets. Credit risk 
associated with ABSs is reduced through the purchase of credit 
default swap (‘CDS’) protection.
–
Trading loans and advances mainly consist of reverse repos and 
stock borrowing, which are by their nature collateralised.
–
Cash collateral is posted to satisfy margin requirements. There is 
limited credit risk on cash collateral posted since in the event of 
default of the counterparty this would be set off against the 
related liability.
 Collateral accepted as security that the Group is permitted to sell or 
repledge under these arrangements is described on page 400 of the 
financial statements.
The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk includes financial 
guarantees and similar contracts granted, as well as loan and other 
credit-related commitments. Depending on the terms of the 
arrangement, we may use additional credit mitigation if a guarantee is 
called upon or a loan commitment is drawn and subsequently 
defaults.
 For further information on these arrangements, see Note 32 on the financial 
statements.
Derivatives
We participate in transactions exposing us to counterparty credit risk. 
Counterparty credit risk is the risk of financial loss if the counterparty 
to a transaction defaults before satisfactorily settling it. It arises 
principally from over-the-counter (‘OTC’) derivatives and securities 
financing transactions and is calculated in both the trading and nontrading books. Transactions vary in value by reference to a market 
factor such as an interest rate, exchange rate or asset price.
The counterparty risk from derivative transactions is taken into 
account when reporting the fair value of derivative positions. The 
adjustment to the fair value is known as the credit valuation 
adjustment (‘CVA’).
 For an analysis of CVAs, see Note 12 on the financial statements.
The following table reflects by risk type the fair values and gross notional contract amounts of derivatives cleared through an exchange, central 
counterparty or non-central counterparty. 
Notional contract amounts and fair values of derivatives 
2024
2023
Notional 
amount
Fair value
Notional 
amount
Fair value
Assets
Liabilities
Assets
Liabilities
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Total OTC derivatives
 29,273,397 
368,938 
367,759 24,551,539 
337,066 
343,098 
– total OTC derivatives cleared by central counterparties
 13,484,581 
111,974 
113,091 11,130,785 
116,520 
118,796 
– total OTC derivatives not cleared by central counterparties
 15,788,816 
256,964 
254,668 13,420,754 
220,546 
224,302 
Total exchange traded derivatives
 
1,267,685 
12,445 
9,435 
1,111,247 
9,134 
8,159 
Gross
 30,541,082 
381,383 
377,194 25,662,786 
346,200 
351,258 
Offset
 
(112,746) 
(112,746) 
 
(116,486) 
(116,486) 
At 31 Dec
 
268,637 
264,448 
 
229,714 
234,772 
 
 The purposes for which HSBC uses derivatives are described in Note 15 on 
the financial statements.
The International Swaps and Derivatives Association (‘ISDA’) master 
agreement is our preferred agreement for documenting derivatives 
activity. It is common, and our preferred practice, for the parties 
involved in a derivative transaction to execute a credit support annex 
(‘CSA’) in conjunction with the ISDA master agreement. Under a CSA, 
collateral is passed between the parties to mitigate the counterparty 
risk inherent in outstanding positions. The majority of our CSAs are 
with financial institutional clients.
We manage the counterparty exposure on our OTC derivative 
contracts by using collateral agreements with counterparties and 
netting agreements. Currently, we do not actively manage our general 
OTC derivative counterparty exposure in the credit markets, although 
we may manage individual exposures in certain circumstances.
We place strict policy restrictions on collateral types and as a 
consequence the types of collateral received and pledged are, by 
value, highly liquid and of a strong quality, being predominantly cash.
Where a collateral type is required to be approved outside the 
collateral policy, approval is required from a committee of senior 
representatives from Markets, Legal and Risk.
 See Note 31 on the financial statements for details regarding legally 
enforceable right of offset in the event of counterparty default and collateral 
received in respect of derivatives.
Personal lending 
This section presents further disclosures related to personal lending. 
It provides details of the main legal entities, countries and products 
that are driving the change observed in personal gross loans and 
advances to customers, with the impact of foreign exchange 
separately identified. Additionally, Hong Kong and UK mortgage book 
loan to value (‘LTV’) data is provided.
This section also provides reconciliations of the opening 
1 January 2024 to 31 December 2024 closing gross carrying/nominal 
amounts and associated allowance for ECL by product. Further 
product granularity is also provided by stage, with data for our main 
legal entities presented for gross loans and advances to customers, 
loan and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees.
At 31 December 2024, total personal lending for gross loans and 
advances to customers of $447.2bn decreased by $0.3bn on a 
reported basis, compared with 31 December 2023. This decrease 
included adverse foreign exchange movements of $9.9bn. On a 
constant currency basis, the increase of $9.6bn was driven by growth 
in mortgages (up $7.5bn) and other personal lending (up $2.1bn).
On a constant currency basis, mortgage lending gross balances 
increased by $7.5bn to $361.3bn at 31 December 2024. Mortgages 
grew in our main legal entities in the UK (up $4.5bn), in the US (up 
$2.7bn), Australia (up $1.3bn) and Mexico (up $0.3bn). These 
increases were partly offset by a $1.2bn decrease in China, mainly 
due to loan repayments. 
Risk review
184
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

On a constant currency basis, other personal lending balances at 
31 December 2024 increased by $2.1bn compared with 31 December 
2023. This included an increase in our entities in Europe (up $1.1bn), 
in our entities in Asia (up $1.0bn) and in Mexico (up $0.3bn). This was 
partly offset by the sale of our business in Argentina (down $0.3bn).
Total personal lending gross carrying amounts in stage 2 decreased 
by $7.6bn compared with 31 December 2023. Excluding adverse 
foreign exchange movements of $1.1bn, the decrease of $6.5bn was 
driven by a reduction in credit judgements, primarily in the UK.
At 31 December 2024, the write-offs attributable to personal lending 
increased by $0.2bn to $1.5bn, compared with 31 December 2023.
At 31 December 2024, the allowance for ECL attributable to personal 
lending, excluding off-balance sheet loan commitments and 
guarantees, decreased by $0.3bn to $2.5bn, compared with 
31 December 2023. This decrease included favourable foreign 
exchange movements of $0.2bn.
On a constant currency basis, the allowance for ECL attributable to 
other personal lending of $2.1bn decreased by $0.1bn compared with 
31 December 2023. This net release was driven by resilient 
performance and a reduction in credit judgements in the UK. The 
allowance for ECL attributable to mortgages of $0.5bn remained 
unchanged compared with 31 December 2023.
The quality of both our Hong Kong and UK mortgage books remained 
strong, with low levels of impairment allowances. The average LTV 
ratio on new mortgage lending in Hong Kong was 67%, compared 
with an estimated 63% for the overall mortgage portfolio. The 
average LTV ratio on new lending in the UK was 69%, compared with 
an estimated 53% for the overall mortgage portfolio. 
 
Total personal lending for loans and advances to customers at amortised cost by stage distribution
Gross carrying amount
Allowance for ECL
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
By portfolio
First lien residential mortgages
 
324,703 
34,177 
2,450 
361,330 
(59) 
(130) 
(284) 
(473) 
– of which: interest-only (including offset)
 
21,155 
2,457 
103 
23,715 
(3) 
(10) 
(17) 
(30) 
– affordability (including US adjustable rate 
mortgages)
 
16,628 
386 
243 
17,257 
(2) 
(2) 
(7) 
(11) 
Other personal lending 
 
79,043 
5,742 
1,110 
85,895 
(511) 
(1,028) 
(512) 
(2,051) 
– second lien residential mortgages
 
366 
10 
19 
395 
— 
— 
(2) 
(2) 
– guaranteed loans in respect of residential property
 
6,492 
186 
20 
6,698 
(2) 
(2) 
(5) 
(9) 
– other personal lending which is secured
 
30,564 
478 
138 
31,180 
(12) 
(4) 
(15) 
(31) 
– credit cards
 
21,611 
2,991 
313 
24,915 
(268) 
(660) 
(199) 
(1,127) 
– other personal lending which is unsecured
 
18,198 
1,864 
598 
20,660 
(214) 
(345) 
(279) 
(838) 
– motor vehicle finance
 
1,812 
213 
22 
2,047 
(15) 
(17) 
(12) 
(44) 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
403,746 
39,919 
3,560 
447,225 
(570) 
(1,158) 
(796) 
(2,524) 
By legal entity
HSBC UK Bank plc
 
152,338 
31,325 
1,075 
184,738 
(148) 
(307) 
(211) 
(666) 
HSBC Bank plc1
 
23,501 
1,198 
324 
25,023 
(17) 
(24) 
(99) 
(140) 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
Limited
 
191,614 
5,519 
1,170 
198,303 
(174) 
(385) 
(164) 
(723) 
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited
 
3,678 
158 
40 
3,876 
(14) 
(29) 
(30) 
(73) 
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
 
20,851 
497 
327 
21,675 
(4) 
(12) 
(11) 
(27) 
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V.
 
11,016 
1,172 
620 
12,808 
(207) 
(400) 
(279) 
(886) 
Other trading entities1
 
748 
50 
4 
802 
(6) 
(1) 
(2) 
(9) 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
403,746 
39,919 
3,560 
447,225 
(570) 
(1,158) 
(796) 
(2,524) 
1 At 31 December 2023, ‘Other trading entities’ included gross carrying amount of $9,079m and allowances for ECL of $23m related to Private Banking entities 
that were reclassified to HSBC Bank plc to continue the process of simplifying our structure.
Total personal lending for loans and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees by stage distribution
Nominal amount
Allowance for ECL
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
HSBC UK Bank plc
 
51,078 
442 
47 
51,567 
(6) 
— 
(3) 
(9) 
HSBC Bank plc
 
1,605 
7 
2 
1,614 
— 
— 
— 
— 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
Limited
 
189,737 
1,165 
35 
190,937 
(4) 
— 
(2) 
(6) 
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited
 
2,452 
7 
— 
2,459 
— 
— 
— 
— 
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
 
3,707 
68 
2 
3,777 
— 
— 
— 
— 
HSBC Bank Canada
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V.
 
3,892 
— 
— 
3,892 
(7) 
— 
— 
(7) 
Other trading entities
 
434 
2 
— 
436 
— 
— 
— 
— 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
252,905 
1,691 
86 
254,682 
(17) 
— 
(5) 
(22) 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
185
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Total personal lending for loans and advances to customers at amortised cost by stage distribution (continued)
Gross carrying amount
Allowance for ECL
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
By portfolio
First lien residential mortgages
 
320,410 
38,287 
2,212 
360,909 
(102) 
(200) 
(269) 
(571) 
– of which: interest-only (including offset) 
 
21,895 
2,923 
139 
24,957 
(4) 
(27) 
(31) 
(62) 
– affordability (including US adjustable rate 
mortgages)
 
14,380 
381 
291 
15,052 
(3) 
(1) 
(10) 
(14) 
Other personal lending
 
76,124 
9,196 
1,293 
86,613 
(477) 
(1,234) 
(585) 
(2,296) 
– second lien residential mortgages
 
317 
58 
21 
396 
— 
(3) 
(5) 
(8) 
– guaranteed loans in respect of residential property
 
8,001 
502 
90 
8,593 
(1) 
(5) 
(14) 
(20) 
– other personal lending which is secured
 
28,900 
424 
157 
29,481 
(13) 
(5) 
(24) 
(42) 
– credit cards
 
19,909 
4,419 
352 
24,680 
(236) 
(697) 
(203) 
(1,136) 
– other personal lending which is unsecured
 
17,010 
3,582 
659 
21,251 
(212) 
(505) 
(331) 
(1,048) 
– motor vehicle finance
 
1,987 
211 
14 
2,212 
(15) 
(19) 
(8) 
(42) 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
396,534 
47,483 
3,505 
447,522 
(579) 
(1,434) 
(854) 
(2,867) 
By legal entity
HSBC UK Bank plc
 
146,354 
35,190 
1,218 
182,762 
(152) 
(490) 
(255) 
(897) 
HSBC Bank plc
 
14,598 
1,747 
273 
16,618 
(24) 
(22) 
(91) 
(137) 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
Limited
 
191,382 
7,741 
948 
200,071 
(165) 
(402) 
(162) 
(729) 
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited
 
3,335 
397 
47 
3,779 
(19) 
(33) 
(36) 
(88) 
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
 
18,096 
553 
364 
19,013 
(5) 
(14) 
(16) 
(35) 
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V.
 
12,717 
1,740 
536 
14,993 
(197) 
(463) 
(273) 
(933) 
Other trading entities
 
10,052 
115 
119 
10,286 
(17) 
(10) 
(21) 
(48) 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
396,534 
47,483 
3,505 
447,522 
(579) 
(1,434) 
(854) 
(2,867) 
Total personal lending for loans and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees by stage distribution (continued)
Nominal amount
Allowance for ECL
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
HSBC UK Bank plc
 
52,093 
734 
88 
52,915 
(11) 
— 
(2) 
(13) 
HSBC Bank plc
 
1,630 
36 
4 
1,670 
— 
— 
— 
— 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
Limited
 
181,967 
2,479 
223 
184,669 
(3) 
— 
— 
(3) 
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited
 
1,978 
7 
1 
1,986 
— 
— 
— 
— 
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
 
3,695 
72 
8 
3,775 
— 
— 
— 
— 
HSBC Bank Canada
 
6,610 
113 
30 
6,753 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V.
 
4,308 
— 
— 
4,308 
(8) 
— 
— 
(8) 
Other trading entities
 
2,008 
31 
1 
2,040 
(1) 
— 
— 
(1) 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
254,289 
3,472 
355 
258,116 
(23) 
— 
(2) 
(25) 
 
Exposure to UK interest-only mortgage loans 
The following information is presented for HSBC branded interestonly mortgage loans. This excludes offset mortgages in first direct 
and private banking mortgages.
At the end of 2024, the average LTV ratio of the interest-only 
mortgage loans was 44% (2023: 44%), and 99% (2023: 97%) had an 
LTV ratio of 75% or less. 
Of the interest-only mortgage loans that expired in 2022, 82% were 
repaid within 12 months of expiry with a total of 97% being repaid 
within 24 months of expiry. For those expired during 2023, 83% were 
repaid within 12 months of expiry. 
At 31 December 2024, interest-only mortgage loan exposures were 
$15.2bn (2023: $15.2bn) and the maturity profile was as follows:
UK interest-only mortgage loans
$m
Expired interest-only mortgage loans
 
128 
Interest-only mortgage loans by maturity
– 2025
 
165 
– 2026
 
247 
– 2027
 
366 
– 2028
 
515 
– 2029–2033
 
2,728 
– post-2033
 
11,100 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
15,249 
Risk review
186
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

UK interest-only mortgage loans (continued)
$m
Expired interest-only mortgage loans
 
141 
Interest-only mortgage loans by maturity
– 2024
 
141 
– 2025
 
242 
– 2026
 
315 
– 2027
 
436 
– 2028–2032
 
2,919 
– post-2032
 
11,010 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
15,204 
 
Exposure to offset mortgage in first direct
The offset mortgage in first direct is no longer on sale and is only available for existing offset mortgage customers. It works by grouping 
together the customer’s mortgage, savings and current accounts to offset their credit and debit balances against their mortgage exposure. At 
31 December 2024, exposures were worth a total $4.1bn with an average LTV ratio of 28% (2023: $5.0bn exposure and 29% LTV ratio).
Reconciliations of changes in personal lending gross carrying/nominal amount 
and allowances for loans and advances to customers including loan 
commitments and financial guarantees
The following disclosure provides a reconciliation by stage of the Group’s personal lending gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for 
loans and advances to customers, including loan commitments and financial guarantees.
In addition, three reconciliations by stage of the Group’s gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for first lien mortgages, credit cards and 
other personal lending, including loan commitments and financial guarantees, have been included following the adoption of the 
recommendations of the DECL Taskforce’s third report since 2023.
Personal lending – reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for loans and advances to customers
including loan commitments and financial guarantees
(Audited)
Non-credit impaired
Credit impaired
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
At 1 Jan 2024
 
650,823 
(602) 
50,955 
(1,434) 
3,860 
(856) 
705,638 
(2,892) 
Transfers of financial instruments:
 
(2,023) 
(1,045) 
(345) 
1,477 
2,368 
(432) 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 1 to stage 2
 
(45,220) 
246 
45,220 
(246) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 2 to stage 1
 
43,549 
(1,247) 
(43,549) 
1,247 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers to stage 3
 
(743) 
9 
(2,715) 
685 
3,458 
(694) 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 3
 
391 
(53) 
699 
(209) 
(1,090) 
262 
— 
— 
Net remeasurement of ECL arising from transfer 
of stage
 
— 
745 
— 
(605) 
— 
(132) 
— 
8 
Changes due to modifications not derecognised
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(25) 
— 
(25) 
— 
Net new and further lending/repayments
 
29,789 
(17) 
(7,889) 
278 
(796) 
470 
21,104 
731 
Change to risk parameters – credit quality 
 
— 
251 
— 
(874) 
— 
(1,437) 
— 
(2,060) 
Changes to models used for ECL calculation
 
— 
29 
— 
(109) 
— 
(20) 
— 
(100) 
Assets written off
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(1,534) 
1,534 
(1,534) 
1,534 
Foreign exchange and others1,2,3
 
(21,938) 
52 
(1,111) 
109 
(227) 
72 
(23,276) 
233 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
656,651 
(587) 
41,610 
(1,158) 
3,646 
(801) 
701,907 
(2,546) 
ECL income statement change for the period
 
1,008 
 
(1,310) 
 
(1,119) 
 
(1,421) 
Recoveries
 
220 
Others
 
(32) 
Total ECL income statement change for the 
period
 
(1,233) 
1 Total includes $0.8bn of gross carrying loans and advances to customers, which were classified to assets held for sale, and a corresponding allowance for ECL of 
$23m, reflecting business disposals, as disclosed in Note 23 ‘Assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale’ on page 411.
2 Total includes $6.4bn of nominal amount and $1m of corresponding allowance for ECL related to derecognition of loan commitments and financial guarantees 
following the sale of our banking business in Canada during 2024.
3 Total includes $2.4bn of nominal amount related to derecognition of loan commitments and financial guarantees following the sale of our banking business in 
Argentina during 2024.
As shown in the above table, the allowance for ECL for loans and advances to customers and relevant loan commitments and financial 
guarantees decreased by $346m during the period from $2,892m at 31 December 2023 to $2,546m at 31 December 2024.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
187
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

This decrease was driven by:
–
$1,534m of assets written off;
–
$731m relating to volume movements, which included the 
allowance for ECL associated with new originations, assets 
derecognised and further lending/repayment;
–
foreign exchange and other movements of $233m; and
–
$8m relating to the net remeasurement impact of stage transfers. 
These were partly offset by:
–
$2,060m relating to credit quality changes, including the credit 
quality impact of financial instruments transferring between 
stages; and
–
$100m of changes to models used for ECL calculation.
The ECL charge for the period of $1,421m presented in the above 
table consisted of $2,060m relating to credit quality changes, 
including the credit quality impact of financial instruments transferring 
between stages, and $100m relating to changes to models used for 
the calculation of ECL. This was partly offset by $731m relating to 
underlying net book volume movements and $8m relating to the net 
remeasurement impact of stage transfer.
During the period, there was a net transfer between stage 1 and 
stage 2 of $1,671m gross carrying/nominal amounts. This increase 
was mainly driven by HSBC UK ($3,410m) due to mortgages portfolio 
and Mexico ($860m) due to a slight deterioration in unsecured lending 
portfolio, partly offset by Hong Kong ($2,983m) due to improvement 
in credit cards and other unsecured lending portfolio.
 A summary of basis of preparation is available on page 161.
Personal lending – reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for loans and advances to customers
including loan commitments and financial guarantees
(Audited)
Non-credit impaired
Credit impaired
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
At 1 Jan 2023
 
603,321 
(587) 
52,563 
(1,505) 
4,139 
(805) 
660,023 
(2,897) 
Transfers of financial instruments:
 
(2,144) 
(619) 
39 
1,087 
2,105 
(468) 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 1 to stage 2
 
(57,217) 
270 
57,217 
(270) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 2 to stage 1
 
55,307 
(862) 
(55,307) 
862 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers to stage 3
 
(542) 
3 
(2,345) 
614 
2,887 
(617) 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 3
 
308 
(30) 
474 
(119) 
(782) 
149 
— 
— 
Net remeasurement of ECL arising from transfer of 
stage
 
— 
563 
— 
(679) 
— 
(79) 
— 
(195) 
Net new and further lending/repayments
 
34,411 
(47) 
(4,713) 
350 
(1,169) 
144 
28,529 
447 
Change to risk parameters – credit quality
 
— 
104 
— 
(641) 
— 
(955) 
— 
(1,492) 
Changes to models used for ECL calculation
 
— 
(13) 
— 
21 
— 
7 
— 
15 
Assets written off
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(1,326) 
1,326 
(1,326) 
1,326 
Foreign exchange and others1,2
 
15,235 
(3) 
3,066 
(67) 
111 
(26) 
18,412 
(96) 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
650,823 
(602) 
50,955 
(1,434) 
3,860 
(856) 
705,638 
(2,892) 
ECL income statement change for the period
 
607 
 
(949) 
 
(883) 
 
(1,225) 
Recoveries
 
226 
Others
 
8 
Total ECL income statement change for the period
 
(991) 
1 Total includes $7.8bn of gross carrying loans and advances and a corresponding allowance for ECL of $11m, due to the retention of certain balances previously 
classified as assets held for sale of our retail banking operations in France. For further details, see Note 23 ‘Assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups 
held for sale’ on page 411.
2 Total includes $2.0bn of gross carrying loans and advances to customers, which were classified to assets held for sale, and a corresponding allowance for ECL of 
$20m, reflecting business disposals, as disclosed in Note 23 ‘Assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale’ on page 411.
Risk review
188
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

First lien residential mortgages – reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for loans and advances to 
customers including loan commitments and financial guarantees
Non-credit impaired
Credit impaired
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
At 1 Jan 2024
 
340,764 
(109) 
38,513 
(202) 
2,258 
(264) 
381,535 
(575) 
Transfers of financial instruments:
 
(3,561) 
(232) 
2,694 
232 
867 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 1 to stage 2
 
(33,524) 
23 
33,524 
(23) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 2 to stage 1
 
30,113 
(244) 
(30,113) 
244 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers to stage 3
 
(290) 
6 
(1,127) 
90 
1,417 
(96) 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 3
 
140 
(17) 
410 
(79) 
(550) 
96 
— 
— 
Net remeasurement of ECL arising from transfer of 
stage
 
— 
163 
— 
(152) 
— 
(30) 
— 
(19) 
Changes due to modifications not derecognised
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Net new and further lending/repayments
 
14,008 
20 
(6,336) 
26 
(523) 
33 
7,149 
79 
Change to risk parameters – credit quality 
 
— 
115 
— 
(73) 
— 
(103) 
— 
(61) 
Changes to models used for ECL calculation
 
— 
(8) 
— 
29 
— 
1 
— 
22 
Assets written off
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(63) 
63 
(63) 
63 
Foreign exchange and others
 
(6,535) 
(7) 
(530) 
10 
(65) 
15 
(7,130) 
18 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
344,676 
(58) 
34,341 
(130) 
2,474 
(285) 
381,491 
(473) 
ECL income statement change for the period
 
290 
 
(170) 
 
(99) 
 
21 
Recoveries
 
7 
Others
 
(1) 
Total ECL income statement change for the 
period
 
27 
At 1 Jan 2023
 
317,666 
(74) 
40,048 
(231) 
2,230 
(270) 
359,944 
(575) 
Transfers of financial instruments:
 
(1,182) 
(109) 
421 
138 
761 
(29) 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 1 to stage 2
 
(41,207) 
28 
41,207 
(28) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 2 to stage 1
 
40,164 
(117) 
(40,164) 
117 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers to stage 3
 
(354) 
1 
(958) 
100 
1,312 
(101) 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 3
 
215 
(21) 
336 
(51) 
(551) 
72 
— 
— 
Net remeasurement of ECL arising from transfer of 
stage
 
— 
72 
— 
(79) 
— 
(67) 
— 
(74) 
Net new and further lending/repayments
 
15,447 
(3) 
(3,939) 
22 
(751) 
322 
10,757 
341 
Change to risk parameters – credit quality 
 
— 
16 
— 
(67) 
— 
(269) 
— 
(320) 
Changes to models used for ECL calculation
 
— 
(2) 
— 
28 
— 
— 
— 
26 
Assets written off
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(53) 
53 
(53) 
53 
Foreign exchange and others
 
8,833 
(9) 
1,983 
(13) 
71 
(4) 
10,887 
(26) 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
340,764 
(109) 
38,513 
(202) 
2,258 
(264) 
381,535 
(575) 
ECL income statement change for the period
 
83 
 
(96) 
 
(14) 
 
(27) 
Recoveries
 
10 
Others
 
13 
Total ECL income statement change for the period
 
(4) 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
189
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Credit cards – reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for loans and advances to customers including loan 
commitments
Non-credit impaired
Credit impaired
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
At 1 Jan 2024
 
153,292 
(253) 
6,547 
(698) 
450 
(144) 
160,289 
(1,095) 
Transfers of financial instruments:
 
796 
(453) 
(1,469) 
717 
673 
(264) 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 1 to stage 2
 
(6,427) 
129 
6,427 
(129) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 2 to stage 1
 
7,255 
(569) 
(7,255) 
569 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers to stage 3
 
(179) 
2 
(765) 
327 
944 
(329) 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 3
 
147 
(15) 
124 
(50) 
(271) 
65 
— 
— 
Net remeasurement of ECL arising from transfer of 
stage
 
— 
280 
— 
(256) 
— 
(45) 
— 
(21) 
Changes due to modifications not derecognised
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(2) 
— 
(2) 
— 
Net new and further lending/repayments
 
9,604 
18 
(1,122) 
127 
(1) 
194 
8,481 
339 
Change to risk parameters – credit quality 
 
— 
79 
— 
(476) 
— 
(694) 
— 
(1,091) 
Changes to models used for ECL calculation
 
— 
22 
— 
(122) 
— 
1 
— 
(99) 
Assets written off
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(736) 
736 
(736) 
736 
Foreign exchange and others1
 
(7,380) 
27 
(196) 
50 
(41) 
17 
(7,617) 
94 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
156,312 
(280) 
3,760 
(658) 
343 
(199) 
160,415 
(1,137) 
ECL income statement change for the period
 
399 
 
(727) 
 
(544) 
 
(872) 
Recoveries
 
106 
Others
 
(10) 
Total ECL income statement change for the 
period
 
(776) 
1 Total includes $4.5bn of nominal amount related to derecognition of loan commitments and financial guarantees following the sale of our banking business in 
Canada and our business in Argentina during 2024.
Non-credit impaired
Credit impaired
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
At 1 Jan 2023
 
140,519 
(244) 
6,747 
(777) 
353 
(160) 
147,619 
(1,181) 
Transfers of financial instruments:
 
199 
(292) 
(848) 
496 
649 
(204) 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 1 to stage 2
 
(7,855) 
102 
7,855 
(102) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 2 to stage 1
 
8,124 
(391) 
(8,124) 
391 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers to stage 3
 
(82) 
1 
(621) 
227 
703 
(228) 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 3
 
12 
(4) 
42 
(20) 
(54) 
24 
— 
— 
Net remeasurement of ECL arising from transfer of 
stage
 
— 
185 
— 
(301) 
— 
(5) 
— 
(121) 
Net new and further lending/repayments
 
13,206 
27 
621 
169 
12 
(41) 
13,839 
155 
Change to risk parameters – credit quality 
 
— 
82 
— 
(281) 
— 
(301) 
— 
(500) 
Changes to models used for ECL calculation
 
— 
(9) 
— 
15 
— 
1 
— 
7 
Assets written off
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(571) 
571 
(571) 
571 
Foreign exchange and others
 
(632) 
(2) 
27 
(19) 
7 
(5) 
(598) 
(26) 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
153,292 
(253) 
6,547 
(698) 
450 
(144) 
160,289 
(1,095) 
ECL income statement change for the period
 
285 
 
(398) 
 
(346) 
 
(459) 
Recoveries
 
108 
Others
 
(200) 
Total ECL income statement change for the period
 
(551) 
Risk review
190
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Other personal lending – reconciliation of changes in gross carrying/nominal amount and allowances for loans and advances to customers 
including loan commitments and financial guarantees
Non-credit impaired
Credit impaired
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
At 1 Jan 2024
 
156,767 
(240) 
5,895 
(534) 
1,152 
(448) 
163,814 
(1,222) 
Transfers of financial instruments:
 
742 
(360) 
(1,570) 
528 
828 
(168) 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 1 to stage 2
 
(5,269) 
94 
5,269 
(94) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 2 to stage 1
 
6,181 
(434) 
(6,181) 
434 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers to stage 3
 
(274) 
1 
(823) 
268 
1,097 
(269) 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 3
 
104 
(21) 
165 
(80) 
(269) 
101 
— 
— 
Net remeasurement of ECL arising from transfer of 
stage
 
— 
302 
— 
(197) 
— 
(57) 
— 
48 
Changes due to modifications not derecognised
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(23) 
— 
(23) 
— 
Net new and further lending/repayments
 
6,177 
(55) 
(431) 
125 
(272) 
243 
5,474 
313 
Change to risk parameters – credit quality 
 
— 
57 
— 
(325) 
— 
(640) 
— 
(908) 
Changes to models used for ECL calculation
 
— 
15 
— 
(16) 
— 
(22) 
— 
(23) 
Assets written off
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(735) 
735 
(735) 
735 
Foreign exchange and others1,2
 
(8,023) 
32 
(385) 
49 
(121) 
40 
(8,529) 
121 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
155,663 
(249) 
3,509 
(370) 
829 
(317) 
160,001 
(936) 
ECL income statement change for the period
 
319 
 
(413) 
 
(476) 
 
(570) 
Recoveries
 
107 
Others
 
(21) 
Total ECL income statement change for the 
period
 
(484) 
1 Total includes $0.3bn of gross carrying loans and advances, which were classified to assets held for sale, and a corresponding allowance for ECL of $10m, 
reflecting business disposals, as disclosed in Note 23 ‘Assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale’ on page 411.
2 Total includes $4.4bn of nominal amount related to derecognition of loan commitments and financial guarantees following the sale of our banking business in 
Canada during 2024.
Non-credit impaired
Credit impaired
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
Gross 
carrying/ 
nominal 
amount
Allowance 
for ECL
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
At 1 Jan 2023
 
145,136 
(269) 
5,768 
(497) 
1,556 
(375) 
152,460 
(1,141) 
Transfers of financial instruments:
 
(1,161) 
(218) 
466 
453 
695 
(235) 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 1 to stage 2
 
(8,155) 
140 
8,155 
(140) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 2 to stage 1
 
7,019 
(354) 
(7,019) 
354 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– transfers to stage 3
 
(106) 
1 
(766) 
287 
872 
(288) 
— 
— 
– transfers from stage 3
 
81 
(5) 
96 
(48) 
(177) 
53 
— 
— 
Net remeasurement of ECL arising from transfer of 
stage
 
— 
306 
— 
(299) 
— 
(7) 
— 
— 
Net new and further lending/repayments
 
5,758 
(71) 
(1,395) 
159 
(430) 
(137) 
3,933 
(49) 
Change to risk parameters – credit quality 
 
— 
6 
— 
(293) 
— 
(385) 
— 
(672) 
Changes to models used for ECL calculation
 
— 
(2) 
— 
(22) 
— 
6 
— 
(18) 
Assets written off
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(702) 
702 
(702) 
702 
Foreign exchange and others1
 
7,034 
8 
1,056 
(35) 
33 
(17) 
8,123 
(44) 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
156,767 
(240) 
5,895 
(534) 
1,152 
(448) 
163,814 
(1,222) 
ECL income statement change for the period
 
239 
 
(455) 
 
(523) 
 
(739) 
Recoveries
 
108 
Others
 
195 
Total ECL income statement change for the period
 
(436) 
1 Total includes $7.2bn of gross carrying loans and advances and a corresponding allowance for ECL of $10m, due to the retention of certain balances previously 
classified as assets held for sale of our retail banking operations in France. For further details, see Note 23 ‘Assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups 
held for sale’ on page 411.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
191
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Personal lending – credit risk profile by internal PD band for loans and advances to customers at amortised cost 
Gross carrying amount
Allowance for ECL
PD range1 2
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
ECL 
coverage
%
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
%
First lien residential 
mortgages
 
324,703 
34,177 
2,450 
361,330 
(59) 
(130) 
(284) 
(473) 
 
0.1 
– Band 1
0.000 to 0.250 
234,451 
1,820 
— 
236,271 
(15) 
(4) 
— 
(19) 
 
— 
– Band 2
0.251 to 0.500 
64,340 
11,816 
— 
76,156 
(10) 
(9) 
— 
(19) 
 
— 
– Band 3
0.501 to 1.500 
22,005 
14,631 
— 
36,636 
(16) 
(25) 
— 
(41) 
 
0.1 
– Band 4
1.501 to 5.000 
3,668 
3,990 
— 
7,658 
(17) 
(27) 
— 
(44) 
 
0.6 
– Band 5
5.001 to 20.000 
117 
1,178 
— 
1,295 
— 
(13) 
— 
(13) 
 
1.0 
– Band 6
20.001 to 99.999 
122 
742 
— 
864 
(1) 
(52) 
— 
(53) 
 
6.1 
– Band 7
100.000 
— 
— 
2,450 
2,450 
— 
— 
(284) 
(284) 
 
11.6 
Credit cards
 
21,611 
2,991 
313 
24,915 
(268) 
(660) 
(199) 
(1,127) 
 
4.5 
– Band 1
0.000 to 0.250 
10,051 
1 
— 
10,052 
(26) 
— 
— 
(26) 
 
0.3 
– Band 2
0.251 to 0.500 
2,340 
4 
— 
2,344 
(15) 
(1) 
— 
(16) 
 
0.7 
– Band 3
0.501 to 1.500 
5,113 
23 
— 
5,136 
(72) 
(5) 
— 
(77) 
 
1.5 
– Band 4
1.501 to 5.000 
3,847 
1,013 
— 
4,860 
(123) 
(103) 
— 
(226) 
 
4.7 
– Band 5
5.001 to 20.000 
260 
1,526 
— 
1,786 
(32) 
(263) 
— 
(295) 
 
16.5 
– Band 6
20.001 to 99.999 
— 
424 
— 
424 
— 
(288) 
— 
(288) 
 
67.9 
– Band 7
100.000 
— 
— 
313 
313 
— 
— 
(199) 
(199) 
 
63.6 
Other personal lending
 
57,432 
2,751 
797 
60,980 
(243) 
(368) 
(313) 
(924) 
 
1.5 
– Band 1
0.000 to 0.250 
29,124 
19 
— 
29,143 
(30) 
— 
— 
(30) 
 
0.1 
– Band 2
0.251 to 0.500 
6,109 
242 
— 
6,351 
(9) 
(1) 
— 
(10) 
 
0.2 
– Band 3
0.501 to 1.500 
11,702 
121 
— 
11,823 
(37) 
(3) 
— 
(40) 
 
0.3 
– Band 4
1.501 to 5.000 
9,006 
660 
— 
9,666 
(95) 
(25) 
— 
(120) 
 
1.2 
– Band 5
5.001 to 20.000 
1,433 
1,076 
— 
2,509 
(70) 
(111) 
— 
(181) 
 
7.2 
– Band 6
20.001 to 99.999 
58 
633 
— 
691 
(2) 
(228) 
— 
(230) 
 
33.3 
– Band 7
100.000 
— 
— 
797 
797 
— 
— 
(313) 
(313) 
 
39.3 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
403,746 
39,919 
3,560 
447,225 
(570) 
(1,158) 
(796) 
(2,524) 
 
0.6 
First lien residential 
mortgages
 
320,410 
38,287 
2,212 
360,909 
(102) 
(200) 
(269) 
(571) 
 
0.2 
– Band 1
0.000 to 0.250 
229,188 
3,174 
— 
232,362 
(16) 
(14) 
— 
(30) 
 
— 
– Band 2
0.251 to 0.500 
54,891 
12,266 
— 
67,157 
(11) 
(17) 
— 
(28) 
 
— 
– Band 3
0.501 to 1.500 
28,159 
16,140 
— 
44,299 
(22) 
(49) 
— 
(71) 
 
0.2 
– Band 4
1.501 to 5.000 
7,451 
4,559 
— 
12,010 
(52) 
(30) 
— 
(82) 
 
0.7 
– Band 5
5.001 to 20.000 
599 
1,097 
— 
1,696 
— 
(11) 
— 
(11) 
 
0.6 
– Band 6
20.001 to 99.999 
122 
1,051 
— 
1,173 
(1) 
(79) 
— 
(80) 
 
6.8 
– Band 7
100.000 
— 
— 
2,212 
2,212 
— 
— 
(269) 
(269) 
 
12.2 
Credit cards
 
19,909 
4,419 
352 
24,680 
(236) 
(697) 
(203) 
(1,136) 
 
4.6 
– Band 1
0.000 to 0.250 
9,490 
1 
— 
9,491 
(32) 
— 
— 
(32) 
 
0.3 
– Band 2
0.251 to 0.500 
2,481 
6 
— 
2,487 
(21) 
(1) 
— 
(22) 
 
0.9 
– Band 3
0.501 to 1.500 
4,799 
294 
— 
5,093 
(56) 
(17) 
— 
(73) 
 
1.4 
– Band 4
1.501 to 5.000 
2,787 
2,291 
— 
5,078 
(93) 
(158) 
— 
(251) 
 
4.9 
– Band 5
5.001 to 20.000 
352 
1,374 
— 
1,726 
(34) 
(258) 
— 
(292) 
 
16.9 
– Band 6
20.001 to 99.999 
— 
453 
— 
453 
— 
(263) 
— 
(263) 
 
58.1 
– Band 7
100 
— 
— 
352 
352 
— 
— 
(203) 
(203) 
 
57.7 
Other personal lending
 
56,215 
4,777 
941 
61,933 
(241) 
(537) 
(382) 
(1,160) 
 
1.9 
– Band 1
0.000 to 0.250 
28,115 
30 
— 
28,145 
(34) 
(1) 
— 
(35) 
 
0.1 
– Band 2
0.251 to 0.500 
6,634 
286 
— 
6,920 
(11) 
(1) 
— 
(12) 
 
0.2 
– Band 3
0.501 to 1.500 
12,935 
329 
— 
13,264 
(61) 
(9) 
— 
(70) 
 
0.5 
– Band 4
1.501 to 5.000 
7,215 
1,447 
— 
8,662 
(79) 
(46) 
— 
(125) 
 
1.4 
– Band 5
5.001 to 20.000 
1,137 
2,005 
— 
3,142 
(55) 
(199) 
— 
(254) 
 
8.1 
– Band 6
20.001 to 99.999 
179 
680 
— 
859 
(1) 
(281) 
— 
(282) 
 
32.8 
– Band 7
100.000 
— 
— 
941 
941 
— 
— 
(382) 
(382) 
 
40.6 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
396,534 
47,483 
3,505 
447,522 
(579) 
(1,434) 
(854) 
(2,867) 
 
0.6 
1 12-month point in time adjusted for multiple economic scenarios.
2 PD bands do not consider the impact of any management judgemental adjustments on stage or allowances for ECL including the impact of new models not yet 
formally implemented. For a list of management judgemental adjustments see page 155.
Risk review
192
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Personal lending – credit risk profile by internal PD band for loan and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees 
Nominal amount
Allowance for ECL
PD range1
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
ECL 
coverage
%
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
%
Loan and other creditrelated commitments
 
251,489 
1,680 
86 
253,255 
(17) 
— 
(5) 
(22) 
 
— 
– Band 1
0.000 to 0.250 
199,314 
65 
— 
199,379 
(9) 
— 
— 
(9) 
 
— 
– Band 2
0.251 to 0.500 
14,409 
178 
— 
14,587 
(2) 
— 
— 
(2) 
 
— 
– Band 3
0.501 to 1.500 
28,081 
389 
— 
28,470 
(1) 
— 
— 
(1) 
 
— 
– Band 4
1.501 to 5.000 
8,431 
463 
— 
8,894 
(3) 
— 
— 
(3) 
 
— 
– Band 5
5.001 to 20.000 
800 
484 
— 
1,284 
(2) 
— 
— 
(2) 
 
0.2 
– Band 6
20.001 to 99.999 
454 
101 
— 
555 
— 
— 
— 
— 
 
— 
– Band 7
100.000 
— 
— 
86 
86 
— 
— 
(5) 
(5) 
 
5.8 
Financial guarantees
 
1,416 
11 
— 
1,427 
— 
— 
— 
— 
 
— 
– Band 1
0.000 to 0.250 
743 
— 
— 
743 
— 
— 
— 
— 
 
— 
– Band 2
0.251 to 0.500 
389 
— 
— 
389 
— 
— 
— 
— 
 
— 
– Band 3
0.501 to 1.500 
55 
— 
— 
55 
— 
— 
— 
— 
 
— 
– Band 4
1.501 to 5.000 
220 
— 
— 
220 
— 
— 
— 
— 
 
— 
– Band 5
5.001 to 20.000 
3 
11 
— 
14 
— 
— 
— 
— 
 
— 
– Band 6
20.001 to 99.999 
6 
— 
— 
6 
— 
— 
— 
— 
 
— 
– Band 7
100.000 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
 
— 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
252,905 
1,691 
86 
254,682 
(17) 
— 
(5) 
(22) 
 
— 
Loan and other creditrelated commitments
 
253,183 
3,459 
355 
256,997 
(23) 
— 
(2) 
(25) 
 
— 
– Band 1
0.000 to 0.250 
196,201 
114 
— 
196,315 
(15) 
— 
— 
(15) 
 
— 
– Band 2
0.251 to 0.500 
17,861 
63 
— 
17,924 
(1) 
— 
— 
(1) 
 
— 
– Band 3
0.501 to 1.500 
29,623 
1,262 
— 
30,885 
(1) 
— 
— 
(1) 
 
— 
– Band 4
1.501 to 5.000 
8,550 
1,334 
— 
9,884 
(4) 
— 
— 
(4) 
 
— 
– Band 5
5.001 to 20.000 
508 
564 
— 
1,072 
(2) 
— 
— 
(2) 
 
0.2 
– Band 6
20.001 to 99.999 
440 
122 
— 
562 
— 
— 
— 
— 
 
— 
– Band 7
100.000 
— 
— 
355 
355 
— 
— 
(2) 
(2) 
 
0.6 
Financial guarantees
 
1,106 
13 
— 
1,119 
— 
— 
— 
— 
 
— 
– Band 1
0.000 to 0.250 
348 
— 
— 
348 
— 
— 
— 
— 
 
— 
– Band 2
0.251 to 0.500 
386 
— 
— 
386 
— 
— 
— 
— 
 
— 
– Band 3
0.501 to 1.500 
359 
1 
— 
360 
— 
— 
— 
— 
 
— 
– Band 4
1.501 to 5.000 
3 
— 
— 
3 
— 
— 
— 
— 
 
— 
– Band 5
5.001 to 20.000 
2 
12 
— 
14 
— 
— 
— 
— 
 
— 
– Band 6
20.001 to 99.999 
8 
— 
— 
8 
— 
— 
— 
— 
 
— 
– Band 7
100.000 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
 
— 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
254,289 
3,472 
355 
258,116 
(23) 
— 
(2) 
(25) 
 
— 
1 12-month point in time adjusted for multiple economic scenarios.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
193
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Collateral on loans and advances 
(Audited)
The following table provides a quantification of the value of fixed 
charges we hold over specific assets where we have a history 
of enforcing, and are able to enforce, collateral in satisfying a debt in 
the event of the borrower failing to meet its contractual obligations, 
and where the collateral is cash or can be realised by sale in an 
established market. The collateral valuation excludes any adjustments 
for obtaining and selling the collateral and, in particular, loans shown 
as not collateralised or partially collateralised may also benefit from 
other forms of credit mitigants.
Personal lending – residential mortgage loans including loan commitments by level of collateral for key countries/territories by stage
(Audited)
Gross carrying/nominal amount
ECL coverage
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
%
%
%
%
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio
 
332,641 
34,203 
2,371 
369,215 
— 
0.4 
10.0 
0.1 
– less than 50%
 
141,331 
18,076 
1,238 
160,645 
— 
0.2 
7.6 
0.1 
– 51% to 70%
 
111,963 
11,507 
698 
124,168 
— 
0.4 
11.2 
0.1 
– 71% to 80%
 
39,374 
3,040 
242 
42,656 
— 
0.7 
13.1 
0.1 
– 81% to 90%
 
25,514 
1,264 
131 
26,909 
— 
0.9 
15.0 
0.1 
– 91% to 100%
 
14,459 
316 
62 
14,837 
— 
1.8 
22.4 
0.1 
Partially collateralised (A): LTV > 100%
 
12,031 
139 
103 
12,273 
— 
3.2 
46.2 
0.4 
– collateral value on A
 
11,274 
126 
70 
11,470 
Total at 31 Dec 2024
 
344,672 
34,342 
2,474 
381,488 
— 
0.4 
11.5 
0.1 
of which: UK
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio
 
151,264 
30,574 
747 
182,585 
— 
0.2 
8.5 
0.1 
– less than 50%
 
62,753 
16,689 
445 
79,887 
— 
0.1 
6.9 
0.1 
– 51% to 70%
 
50,374 
10,456 
206 
61,036 
— 
0.2 
9.7 
0.1 
– 71% to 80%
 
20,552 
2,423 
64 
23,039 
— 
0.4 
12.1 
0.1 
– 81% to 90%
 
15,965 
939 
23 
16,927 
— 
0.6 
13.0 
0.1 
– 91% to 100%
 
1,620 
67 
9 
1,696 
— 
0.7 
16.7 
0.1 
Partially collateralised (B): LTV > 100%
 
146 
15 
5 
166 
— 
1.0 
27.7 
0.9 
– collateral value on B
 
109 
12 
4 
125 
Total UK at 31 Dec 2024
 
151,410 
30,589 
752 
182,751 
— 
0.2 
8.6 
0.1 
of which: Hong Kong
Fully collateralised 
 
95,751 
756 
138 
96,645 
— 
— 
1.3 
— 
– less than 50%
 
38,894 
372 
79 
39,345 
— 
— 
0.4 
— 
– 51% to 70%
 
30,088 
227 
31 
30,346 
— 
— 
0.4 
— 
– 71% to 80%
 
6,783 
47 
11 
6,841 
— 
— 
5.1 
— 
– 81% to 90%
 
7,602 
42 
9 
7,653 
— 
0.2 
1.1 
— 
– 91% to 100%
 
12,384 
68 
8 
12,460 
— 
0.1 
8.8 
— 
Partially collateralised (C): LTV > 100%
 
11,744 
103 
14 
11,861 
— 
0.2 
19.1 
— 
– collateral value on C
 
11,034 
96 
12 
11,142 
Total Hong Kong at 31 Dec 2024
 
107,495 
859 
152 
108,506 
— 
0.1 
2.9 
— 
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio
 
331,279 
38,378 
2,129 
371,786 
— 
0.5 
10.1 
0.1 
– less than 50%
 
140,992 
19,715 
1,165 
161,872 
— 
0.3 
7.1 
0.1 
– 51% to 70%
 
113,043 
12,636 
568 
126,247 
— 
0.6 
10.9 
0.1 
– 71% to 80%
 
37,866 
4,111 
229 
42,206 
— 
0.9 
15.2 
0.2 
– 81% to 90%
 
23,278 
1,499 
109 
24,886 
— 
1.2 
17.3 
0.2 
– 91% to 100%
 
16,100 
417 
58 
16,575 
— 
1.6 
28.9 
0.2 
Partially collateralised (A): LTV > 100%
 
9,529 
136 
129 
9,794 
— 
3.4 
42.0 
0.6 
– collateral value on A
 
8,968 
123 
104 
9,195 
Total at 31 Dec 2023
 
340,808 
38,514 
2,258 
381,580 
— 
0.5 
11.9 
0.1 
of which: UK
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio
 
146,739 
33,597 
759 
181,095 
— 
0.3 
9.7 
0.1 
– less than 50%
 
60,403 
17,629 
458 
78,490 
— 
0.2 
7.9 
0.1 
– 51% to 70%
 
49,945 
11,248 
207 
61,400 
— 
0.4 
9.4 
0.1 
– 71% to 80%
 
20,293 
3,275 
61 
23,629 
— 
0.6 
13.4 
0.1 
– 81% to 90%
 
12,946 
1,161 
18 
14,125 
— 
0.8 
17.5 
0.1 
– 91% to 100%
 
3,152 
284 
15 
3,451 
— 
1.0 
41.6 
0.3 
Partially collateralised (B): LTV > 100%
 
317 
19 
27 
363 
0.1 
1.7 
17.5 
1.4 
– collateral value on B
 
244 
15 
22 
281 
Total UK at 31 Dec 2023
 
147,056 
33,616 
786 
181,458 
— 
0.3 
9.9 
0.1 
of which: Hong Kong
Fully collateralised by LTV ratio
 
97,414 
1,354 
93 
98,861 
— 
— 
0.3 
— 
– less than 50%
 
41,903 
831 
66 
42,800 
— 
— 
0.1 
— 
– 51% to 70%
 
29,762 
330 
15 
30,107 
— 
— 
0.5 
— 
– 71% to 80%
 
5,260 
48 
2 
5,310 
— 
0.1 
0.4 
— 
– 81% to 90%
 
8,161 
61 
4 
8,226 
— 
0.1 
1.9 
— 
– 91% to 100%
 
12,328 
84 
6 
12,418 
— 
0.3 
1.8 
— 
Partially collateralised (C): LTV > 100%
 
8,973 
86 
4 
9,063 
— 
0.9 
7.8 
— 
– collateral value on C
 
8,535 
81 
4 
8,620 
Total Hong Kong at 31 Dec 2023
 
106,387 
1,440 
97 
107,924 
— 
0.1 
0.7 
— 
Risk review
194
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Supplementary information
Wholesale lending – loans and advances to customers at amortised cost by country/territory
Gross carrying amount
Allowance for ECL
Corporate 
and 
commercial
of which: real 
estate and 
construction1
Non-bank 
financial 
institutions
Total
Corporate 
and 
commercial
of which: real 
estate and 
construction1
Non-bank 
financial 
institutions
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
UK
 
102,245 
17,540 
21,771 
124,016 
(1,412) 
(289) 
(234) 
(1,646) 
– of which: HSBC UK Bank 
plc (ring-fenced bank)
 
79,833 
16,722 
10,268 
90,101 
(1,146) 
(260) 
(54) 
(1,200) 
– of which: HSBC Bank plc 
(non-ring-fenced bank)
 
22,412 
818 
11,503 
33,915 
(266) 
(29) 
(180) 
(446) 
– of which: Other trading 
entities
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
France
 
25,950 
3,986 
7,222 
33,172 
(257) 
(42) 
(9) 
(266) 
Germany
 
6,256 
264 
421 
6,677 
(153) 
— 
— 
(153) 
Hong Kong
 
118,332 
42,042 
17,846 
136,178 
(2,922) 
(1,494) 
(112) 
(3,034) 
Australia
 
12,532 
4,509 
2,931 
15,463 
(30) 
(3) 
— 
(30) 
India
 
12,540 
2,581 
6,425 
18,965 
(45) 
(5) 
(6) 
(51) 
Indonesia
 
3,132 
184 
356 
3,488 
(109) 
(44) 
— 
(109) 
Mainland China
 
29,930 
5,326 
8,044 
37,974 
(222) 
(117) 
(6) 
(228) 
Malaysia
 
5,773 
1,067 
278 
6,051 
(40) 
(10) 
— 
(40) 
Singapore
 
17,267 
3,266 
1,830 
19,097 
(234) 
(80) 
(1) 
(235) 
Taiwan
 
3,848 
60 
— 
3,848 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Egypt
 
777 
32 
51 
828 
(115) 
(20) 
— 
(115) 
UAE
 
13,278 
1,809 
1,589 
14,867 
(408) 
(258) 
— 
(408) 
US
 
24,084 
4,028 
10,348 
34,432 
(246) 
(106) 
(47) 
(293) 
Mexico
 
10,318 
525 
1,407 
11,725 
(201) 
(9) 
(11) 
(212) 
Other
 
24,422 
2,844 
1,945 
26,367 
(361) 
(121) 
(10) 
(371) 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
410,684 
90,063 
82,464 
493,148 
(6,755) 
(2,598) 
(436) 
(7,191) 
 
UK
 
105,536 
17,852 
18,343 
123,879 
(1,451) 
(246) 
(231) 
(1,682) 
– of which: HSBC UK Bank 
plc (ring-fenced bank)
 
80,248 
17,060 
9,372 
89,620 
(1,212) 
(212) 
(66) 
(1,278) 
– of which: HSBC Bank plc 
(non-ring-fenced bank)
 
24,791 
792 
8,971 
33,762 
(240) 
(34) 
(165) 
(405) 
– of which: Other trading 
entities
 
497 
— 
— 
497 
1 
— 
— 
1 
France
 
27,017 
4,796 
5,701 
32,718 
(636) 
(53) 
(18) 
(654) 
Germany
 
6,667 
240 
632 
7,299 
(74) 
— 
— 
(74) 
Hong Kong
 
125,340 
48,594 
19,319 
144,659 
(3,099) 
(2,147) 
(57) 
(3,156) 
Australia
 
12,685 
4,443 
1,564 
14,249 
(49) 
(1) 
— 
(49) 
India
 
10,856 
2,083 
5,315 
16,171 
(47) 
(7) 
(4) 
(51) 
Indonesia
 
3,100 
162 
411 
3,511 
(136) 
(58) 
— 
(136) 
Mainland China
 
28,655 
6,709 
7,775 
36,430 
(313) 
(212) 
(11) 
(324) 
Malaysia
 
5,797 
1,137 
258 
6,055 
(69) 
(15) 
— 
(69) 
Singapore
 
15,845 
3,458 
948 
16,793 
(321) 
(40) 
(1) 
(322) 
Taiwan
 
4,512 
30 
81 
4,593 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Egypt
 
899 
45 
86 
985 
(128) 
(10) 
(1) 
(129) 
UAE
 
13,740 
1,979 
823 
14,563 
(543) 
(296) 
— 
(543) 
US
 
26,993 
5,143 
9,155 
36,148 
(239) 
(101) 
(58) 
(297) 
Mexico
 
11,326 
865 
1,349 
12,675 
(320) 
(19) 
(5) 
(325) 
Other
 
28,687 
3,919 
2,672 
31,359 
(378) 
(81) 
(18) 
(396) 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
427,655 
101,455 
74,432 
502,087 
(7,803) 
(3,286) 
(404) 
(8,207) 
1 Real estate lending within this disclosure corresponds solely to the industry of the borrower. Commercial real estate on page 177 includes borrowers in multiple 
industries investing in income-producing assets and, to a lesser extent, their construction and development.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
195
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Personal lending – loans and advances to customers at amortised cost by country/territory
Gross carrying amount
Allowance for ECL
First lien 
residential 
mortgages
Other 
personal
of which: 
credit 
cards
Total
First lien 
residential 
mortgages
Other 
personal
of which: 
credit 
cards
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
UK
 
170,809 
21,426 
8,016 
192,235 
(139) 
(540) 
(284) 
(679) 
– of which: HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank)
 
166,709 
18,029 
7,933 
184,738 
(132) 
(534) 
(283) 
(666) 
– of which: HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced 
 bank)
 
4,100 
3,397 
83 
7,497 
(7) 
(6) 
(1) 
(13) 
– of which: Other trading entities
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
France1
 
377 
6,601 
1 
6,978 
(12) 
(12) 
— 
(24) 
Germany
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Hong Kong
 
107,759 
31,676 
10,165 
139,435 
(5) 
(421) 
(291) 
(426) 
Australia
 
22,154 
407 
372 
22,561 
(7) 
(9) 
(8) 
(16) 
India
 
1,984 
865 
265 
2,849 
(3) 
(18) 
(14) 
(21) 
Indonesia
 
46 
323 
142 
369 
(3) 
(11) 
(6) 
(14) 
Mainland China
 
6,087 
771 
227 
6,858 
(12) 
(42) 
(33) 
(54) 
Malaysia
 
3,252 
1,198 
938 
4,450 
(23) 
(62) 
(36) 
(85) 
Singapore
 
5,802 
6,653 
571 
12,455 
— 
(56) 
(28) 
(56) 
Taiwan
 
5,788 
1,424 
340 
7,212 
— 
(15) 
(4) 
(15) 
Egypt
 
— 
321 
89 
321 
— 
(1) 
— 
(1) 
UAE
 
2,082 
1,338 
543 
3,420 
(3) 
(55) 
(31) 
(58) 
US
 
21,021 
653 
195 
21,674 
(12) 
(16) 
(14) 
(28) 
Mexico
 
7,488 
5,320 
2,242 
12,808 
(167) 
(719) 
(339) 
(886) 
Other
 
6,681 
6,919 
809 
13,600 
(87) 
(74) 
(39) 
(161) 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
361,330 
85,895 
24,915 
447,225 
(473) 
(2,051) 
(1,127) 
(2,524) 
UK
 
168,469 
19,503 
8,056 
187,972 
(209) 
(697) 
(339) 
(906) 
– of which: HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank)
 
164,878 
17,884 
7,975 
182,762 
(205) 
(692) 
(336) 
(897) 
– of which: HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced 
 bank)
 
3,226 
141 
81 
3,367 
(3) 
(5) 
(2) 
(8) 
– of which: Other trading entities
 
365 
1,478 
— 
1,843 
(1) 
— 
(1) 
(1) 
France1
 
436 
7,476 
1 
7,912 
(13) 
(8) 
— 
(21) 
Germany
 
— 
165 
— 
165 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Hong Kong
 
107,182 
31,248 
9,663 
138,430 
(2) 
(417) 
(286) 
(419) 
Australia
 
23,001 
446 
396 
23,447 
(5) 
(19) 
(18) 
(24) 
India
 
1,537 
680 
185 
2,217 
(4) 
(16) 
(12) 
(20) 
Indonesia
 
58 
288 
137 
346 
(2) 
(11) 
(7) 
(13) 
Mainland China
 
7,503 
754 
287 
8,257 
(3) 
(49) 
(39) 
(52) 
Malaysia
 
2,313 
2,115 
882 
4,428 
(23) 
(87) 
(36) 
(110) 
Singapore
 
8,151 
5,589 
521 
13,740 
— 
(38) 
(17) 
(38) 
Taiwan
 
5,607 
1,370 
309 
6,977 
— 
(17) 
(4) 
(17) 
Egypt
 
— 
341 
89 
341 
— 
(1) 
(1) 
(1) 
UAE
 
1,957 
1,325 
440 
3,282 
(10) 
(62) 
(24) 
(72) 
US
 
18,340 
673 
199 
19,013 
(15) 
(19) 
(14) 
(34) 
Mexico
 
8,778 
6,215 
2,465 
14,993 
(176) 
(757) 
(297) 
(933) 
Other
 
7,577 
8,425 
1,050 
16,002 
(109) 
(98) 
(42) 
(207) 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
360,909 
86,613 
24,680 
447,522 
(571) 
(2,296) 
(1,136) 
(2,867) 
1 Included in other personal lending at 31 December 2024 is $6,562m (31 December 2023: $7,424m) guaranteed by Crédit Logement.
Risk review
196
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Summary of financial instruments to which the impairment requirements in IFRS 9 are applied – by global business
Gross carrying/nominal amount
Allowance for ECL
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
POCI
Total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3
POCI
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
WPB1
 
569,548 
39,984 
3,717 
— 
613,249 
(596) (1,166) 
(811) 
— 
(2,573) 
CMB
 
436,536 
44,223 16,912 
48 
497,719 
(446) (1,020) (4,713) 
(29) 
(6,208) 
GBM
 
674,730 
10,676 
2,116 
42 
687,564 
(106) 
(331) 
(524) 
(22) 
(983) 
Corporate Centre1
 
72,079 
369 
25 
— 
72,473 
(3) 
(36) 
(17) 
— 
(56) 
Total gross carrying amount on-balance sheet at 
31 Dec 2024
 1,752,893 
95,252 22,770 
90 1,871,005 (1,151) (2,553) (6,065) 
(51) 
(9,820) 
WPB
 
252,695 
1,674 
84 
— 
254,453 
(17) 
— 
(9) 
— 
(26) 
CMB
 
132,703 
13,879 
896 
— 
147,478 
(97) 
(92) 
(86) 
— 
(275) 
GBM
 
226,995 
7,019 
226 
3 
234,243 
(31) 
(34) 
(11) 
— 
(76) 
Corporate Centre
 
191 
— 
— 
— 
191 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Total nominal amount off-balance sheet at 
31 Dec 2024
 
612,584 
22,572 
1,206 
3 
636,365 
(145) 
(126) 
(106) 
— 
(377) 
WPB
 
142,388 
339 
— 
— 
142,727 
(14) 
(2) 
— 
— 
(16) 
CMB
 
103,406 
323 
— 
— 
103,729 
(7) 
(2) 
— 
— 
(9) 
GBM
 
97,422 
149 
— 
— 
97,571 
(9) 
— 
— 
— 
(9) 
Corporate Centre
 
2,028 
69 
— 
— 
2,097 
(1) 
(19) 
— 
— 
(20) 
Debt instruments measured at FVOCI at 
31 Dec 2024
 
345,244 
880 
— 
— 
346,124 
(31) 
(23) 
— 
— 
(54) 
WPB
 
630,661 
54,069 
4,233 
— 688,963 
(621) 
(1,551) 
(977) 
— (3,149) 
CMB
 
464,893 
66,688 12,698 
49 544,328 
(508) 
(1,336) 
(4,995) 
(23) (6,862) 
GBM
 
696,377 
14,247 
3,002 
32 713,658 
(119) 
(199) 
(1,161) 
(7) (1,486) 
Corporate Centre
 
75,805 
37 
6 
— 
75,848 
(1) 
(13) 
— 
— 
(14) 
Total gross carrying amount on-balance sheet at 
31 Dec 2023
 1,867,736 135,041 19,939 
81 
2,022,797 
(1,249) 
(3,099) 
(7,133) 
(30) (11,511) 
WPB
 
253,333 
3,811 
333 
— 257,477 
(22) 
— 
(2) 
— 
(24) 
CMB
 
142,206 
16,238 
877 
— 159,321 
(100) 
(101) 
(102) 
— 
(303) 
GBM
 
250,007 
10,752 
314 
4 261,077 
(38) 
(34) 
(7) 
— 
(79) 
Corporate Centre
 
149 
— 
— 
— 
149 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Total nominal amount off-balance sheet at 
31 Dec 2023
 
645,695 
30,801 
1,524 
4 678,024 
(160) 
(135) 
(111) 
— 
(406) 
WPB
 
124,747 
406 
— 
— 125,153 
(14) 
(17) 
— 
— 
(31) 
CMB
 
86,021 
405 
— 
— 
86,426 
(9) 
(18) 
— 
— 
(27) 
GBM
 
88,229 
173 
1 
— 
88,403 
(13) 
(6) 
(1) 
— 
(20) 
Corporate Centre
 
2,201 
165 
— 
— 
2,366 
(1) 
(18) 
— 
— 
(19) 
Debt instruments measured at FVOCI at 
31 Dec 2023
 
301,198 
1,149 
1 
— 302,348 
(37) 
(59) 
(1) 
— 
(97) 
1 With effect from 1 January 2024, following the sale of our retail banking business in France, we have prospectively reclassified the $7.4bn portfolio of retained 
loans from WPB to Corporate Centre.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
197
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Loans and advances to customers and banks – other supplementary information
Gross 
carrying 
amount
of which: 
stage 3 
and POCI
Allowance 
for ECL
of which: 
stage 3 
and POCI
Change in 
ECL
Write-offs
Recoveries
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
First lien residential mortgages
 
361,330 
2,450 
(473) 
(284) 
33 
(63) 
7 
– second lien residential mortgages
 
395 
19 
(2) 
(2) 
6 
— 
1 
– guaranteed loans in respect of residential property
 
6,698 
20 
(9) 
(5) 
3 
(7) 
— 
– other personal lending which is secured
 
31,180 
138 
(31) 
(15) 
5 
(3) 
— 
– credit cards
 
24,915 
313 
(1,127) 
(199) 
(804) 
(736) 
106 
– other personal lending which is unsecured
 
20,660 
598 
(838) 
(279) 
(484) 
(699) 
103 
– motor vehicle finance
 
2,047 
22 
(44) 
(12) 
(38) 
(26) 
3 
Other personal lending
 
85,895 
1,110 
(2,051) 
(512) 
(1,312) 
(1,471) 
213 
Personal lending
 
447,225 
3,560 
(2,524) 
(796) 
(1,279) 
(1,534) 
220 
– agriculture, forestry and fishing
 
7,033 
282 
(94) 
(46) 
4 
(10) 
1 
– mining and quarrying
 
7,592 
318 
(45) 
(32) 
29 
(26) 
— 
– manufacturing
 
82,724 
1,487 
(893) 
(638) 
(170) 
(403) 
3 
– electricity, gas, steam and air-conditioning supply
 
16,457 
209 
(122) 
(85) 
— 
— 
— 
– water supply, sewerage, waste management and 
remediation
 
2,961 
43 
(24) 
(16) 
2 
(40) 
— 
– real estate and construction
 
90,063 
8,949 
(2,598) 
(1,842) 
(812) 
(1,554) 
12 
– wholesale and retail trade, repair of motor vehicles and 
motorcycles
 
77,830 
2,728 
(1,372) 
(1,188) 
(369) 
(337) 
8 
– transportation and storage
 
22,643 
417 
(321) 
(232) 
(104) 
(20) 
1 
– accommodation and food
 
14,734 
1,610 
(299) 
(214) 
(81) 
(27) 
— 
– publishing, audiovisual and broadcasting
 
19,826 
229 
(158) 
(61) 
(79) 
(75) 
2 
– professional, scientific and technical activities
 
26,128 
648 
(266) 
(188) 
(132) 
(174) 
1 
– administrative and support services
 
20,117 
739 
(320) 
(254) 
(39) 
(88) 
1 
– public administration and defence, compulsory social 
security
 
64 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– education
 
1,596 
43 
(27) 
(16) 
(16) 
(3) 
— 
– health and care
 
4,030 
184 
(51) 
(25) 
(3) 
(12) 
1 
– arts, entertainment and recreation
 
2,066 
78 
(35) 
(26) 
(19) 
(22) 
— 
– other services
 
7,288 
327 
(110) 
(66) 
(82) 
(115) 
10 
– activities of households
 
589 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– extra-territorial organisations and bodies activities
 
118 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– government
 
6,793 
175 
(7) 
(5) 
6 
— 
— 
– asset-backed securities
 
32 
— 
(13) 
— 
1 
— 
— 
Corporate and commercial
 
410,684 
18,466 
(6,755) 
(4,934) 
(1,864) 
(2,906) 
40 
Non-bank financial institutions
 
82,464 
679 
(436) 
(361) 
(59) 
(19) 
— 
Wholesale lending
 
493,148 
19,145 
(7,191) 
(5,295) 
(1,923) 
(2,925) 
40 
Loans and advances to customers
 
940,373 
22,705 
(9,715) 
(6,091) 
(3,202) 
(4,459) 
260 
Loans and advances to banks
 
102,052 
2 
(13) 
(2) 
(1) 
— 
— 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
1,042,425 
22,707 
(9,728) 
(6,093) 
(3,203) 
(4,459) 
260 
 
Risk review
198
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Loans and advances to customers and banks – other supplementary information (continued)
Gross 
carrying 
amount
of which: 
stage 3 and 
POCI
Allowance 
for ECL
of which: 
stage 3 and 
POCI
Change in 
ECL
Write-offs
Recoveries
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
First lien residential mortgages
 
360,909 
2,212 
(571) 
(269) 
(10) 
(53) 
10 
– second lien residential mortgages
 
396 
21 
(8) 
(5) 
(1) 
(1) 
2 
– guaranteed loans in respect of residential property
 
8,593 
90 
(20) 
(14) 
2 
(8) 
2 
– other personal lending which is secured
 
29,481 
157 
(42) 
(24) 
8 
(2) 
2 
– credit cards
 
24,680 
352 
(1,136) 
(203) 
(577) 
(571) 
108 
– other personal lending which is unsecured
 
21,251 
659 
(1,048) 
(331) 
(380) 
(663) 
99 
– motor vehicle finance
 
2,212 
14 
(42) 
(8) 
(61) 
(28) 
3 
Other personal lending
 
86,613 
1,293 
(2,296) 
(585) 
(1,009) 
(1,273) 
216 
Personal lending
 
447,522 
3,505 
(2,867) 
(854) 
(1,019) 
(1,326) 
226 
– agriculture, forestry and fishing
 
7,181 
312 
(130) 
(64) 
(21) 
(9) 
— 
– mining and quarrying
 
7,223 
325 
(101) 
(83) 
27 
(49) 
— 
– manufacturing
 
85,333 
1,899 
(1,143) 
(860) 
(355) 
(273) 
11 
– electricity, gas, steam and air-conditioning supply
 
14,355 
255 
(119) 
(88) 
(26) 
(10) 
— 
– water supply, sewerage, waste management and 
remediation
 
3,262 
102 
(63) 
(51) 
(44) 
(2) 
— 
– real estate and construction
 
101,455 
5,883 
(3,286) 
(2,561) 
(1,358) 
(1,191) 
6 
– wholesale and retail trade, repair of motor vehicles and 
motorcycles
 
79,121 
2,362 
(1,341) 
(1,134) 
(124) 
(447) 
12 
– transportation and storage
 
21,456 
445 
(230) 
(160) 
(87) 
(42) 
— 
– accommodation and food
 
15,874 
1,058 
(257) 
(112) 
(33) 
(26) 
— 
– publishing, audiovisual and broadcasting
 
19,731 
210 
(173) 
(50) 
(106) 
(73) 
— 
– professional, scientific and technical activities
 
26,753 
740 
(401) 
(306) 
(262) 
(110) 
1 
– administrative and support services
 
22,203 
597 
(268) 
(174) 
39 
(137) 
— 
– public administration and defence, compulsory social 
security
 
1,042 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– education
 
1,460 
46 
(15) 
(4) 
(1) 
(22) 
— 
– health and care
 
4,236 
183 
(56) 
(26) 
40 
(7) 
— 
– arts, entertainment and recreation
 
1,961 
99 
(42) 
(31) 
15 
(8) 
— 
– other services
 
8,355 
318 
(153) 
(90) 
22 
(181) 
12 
– activities of households
 
694 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– extra-territorial organisations and bodies activities
 
101 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– government
 
5,827 
205 
(12) 
(10) 
(15) 
— 
— 
– asset-backed securities
 
32 
— 
(13) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Corporate and commercial
 
427,655 
15,039 
(7,803) 
(5,804) 
(2,289) 
(2,587) 
42 
Non-bank financial institutions
 
74,432 
810 
(404) 
(322) 
(168) 
(9) 
— 
Wholesale lending
 
502,087 
15,849 
(8,207) 
(6,126) 
(2,457) 
(2,596) 
42 
Loans and advances to customers
 
949,609 
19,354 
(11,074) 
(6,980) 
(3,476) 
(3,922) 
268 
Loans and advances to banks
 
112,917 
2 
(15) 
(2) 
53 
— 
— 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
1,062,526 
19,356 
(11,089) 
(6,982) 
(3,423) 
(3,922) 
268 
HSBC Holdings
(Audited)
Credit risk in HSBC Holdings primarily arises from transactions with 
Group subsidiaries.
In HSBC Holdings, the maximum exposure to credit risk arises from 
two components:
–
financial assets on the balance sheet, where maximum exposure 
equals the carrying amount (see page 350); and
–
financial guarantees and other guarantees, where the maximum 
exposure is the maximum that we would have to pay if the 
guarantees were called upon (see Note 33).
In the case of our derivative asset balances (see page 350), there is a 
legally enforceable right of offset in the event of counterparty default 
and where, as a result, there is a net exposure for credit risk 
purposes. However, as there is no intention to settle these balances 
on a net basis under normal circumstances, they do not qualify for net 
presentation for accounting purposes. These offsets also include 
collateral received in cash and other financial assets.
The total offset relating to our derivative asset balances was $3.0bn at 
31 December 2024 (2023: $3.0bn).
The credit quality of loans and advances and financial investments, 
both of which consist of intra-Group lending and US Treasury bills and 
bonds, is assessed as ‘strong’, with 100% of the exposure being 
neither past due nor impaired (2023: 100%). For further details of 
credit quality classification, see page 140. 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
199
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Treasury risk
Contents
200
Overview
200
Treasury risk management
202
Other Group risks
204
Capital risk in 2024
207
Liquidity and funding risk in 2024
211
Structural foreign exchange risk in 2024
212
Interest rate risk in the banking book in 2024
Overview
Treasury risk is the risk of having insufficient capital, liquidity or 
funding resources to meet financial obligations and satisfy regulatory 
requirements, including the risk of adverse impact on earnings or 
capital due to structural and transactional foreign exchange 
exposures, as well as changes in market interest rates, together with 
pension and insurance risk.
Treasury risk arises from changes to the respective resources and risk 
profiles driven by customer behaviour, management decisions or the 
external environment.
Approach and policy
(Audited)
Our objective in the management of treasury risk is to maintain 
appropriate levels of capital, liquidity, funding, foreign exchange and 
market risk to support our business strategy, and meet our regulatory 
and stress testing-related requirements.
Our approach to treasury management is driven by our strategic and 
organisational requirements, and considers the regulatory, economic 
and commercial environment. We aim to maintain a strong capital and 
liquidity base to support the risks inherent in our business and invest 
in accordance with our strategy, meeting both consolidated and local 
regulatory requirements at all times.
Our policy is underpinned by our risk management framework. The 
risk management framework incorporates a number of measures 
aligned to our assessment of risks for both internal and regulatory 
purposes. These risks include credit, market, operational, pensions, 
structural and transactional foreign exchange risk, and interest rate 
risk in the banking book.
 For further details, refer to our Pillar 3 Disclosures at 31 December 2024.
 
Treasury risk management
Key developments in 2024
–
The Group continues to benefit from a healthy capital, liquidity and 
funding position.
–
The Board approved a fourth interim dividend for full year 2023, 
paid in April 2024. For the full year 2024, the Board approved three 
interim dividends, which were paid in June, September and 
December 2024. A fourth interim dividend has also been 
announced with these results. We announced a total of $11bn of 
share buy-backs during 2024. 
–
On 1 January 2024, HSBC Continental Europe completed the sale 
of its retail banking operations in France.
–
On 28 March 2024, HSBC completed the sale of HSBC Bank 
Canada to the Royal Bank of Canada. The associated gain on sale 
of $4.8bn, including the recycling of related reserves, added 
approximately 0.8 percentage points to our CET1 ratio in 1Q24. 
The Board approved a special dividend of $0.21 per share, paid in 
June 2024 alongside the first interim dividend. 
–
On 6 December 2024, HSBC completed the sale of HSBC 
Argentina to Grupo Financiero Galicia recognising a loss on 
disposal of $1bn. In addition, $5.2bn of FX and other reserve 
losses were recycled to the income statement on completion. The 
sale had an immaterial capital impact.
–
The Bank continues its delivery efforts against regulatory 
commitments, including enhancements to regulatory reporting and 
the implementation of prudential policy changes across the 
jurisdictions in which we operate. We continue to assess the 
impact of Basel 3.1, following the PRA announcement to delay the 
implementation until 1 January 2027, and expect a modest benefit 
to our CET1 ratio.
–
We have made significant progress in improving our recovery and 
resolution capabilities in line with the Group’s preferred resolution 
strategy and regulatory expectations, including the Bank of 
England’s (‘BoE’) Resolvability Assessment Framework (‘RAF’).
–
We further stabilised our banking net interest income through 
increasing both the size and duration of our structural hedge.
For quantitative disclosures on capital ratios, own funds and risk-weighted 
assets (‘RWAs’), see pages 204 to 205. For quantitative disclosures on liquidity 
and funding metrics, see pages 208 to 209. For quantitative disclosures on 
interest rate risk in the banking book, see pages 212 to 214.
Governance and structure
The Global Head of Traded and Treasury Risk Management and Risk 
Analytics is the accountable risk steward for all treasury risks. The 
Group Treasurer is the risk owner for all treasury risks, with the 
exception of pension risk and insurance risk. The Group Treasurer coowns pension risk with the Group Head of Performance and Reward. 
Insurance risk is owned by the Chief Executive Officer for Global 
Insurance.
Capital risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk in the banking book, 
structural foreign exchange risk and transactional foreign exchange 
risk are the responsibility of the Group Operating Committee and the 
Group Risk Committee (‘GRC’). Global Treasury actively manages 
these risks on an ongoing basis, supported by the Holdings Asset and 
Liability Management Committee (‘ALCO’) and local ALCOs, overseen 
by Treasury Risk Management and Risk Management Meetings.
Pension risk is overseen by a network of local and regional pension 
risk management meetings. The Global Pensions Financial Risk 
Management Meeting provides oversight of all pension plans 
sponsored by HSBC globally and is chaired by the accountable risk 
steward. Insurance risk is overseen by the Global Insurance Risk 
Management Meeting, chaired by the Chief Risk and Compliance 
Officer for Global Insurance.
Capital, liquidity and funding risk 
management processes
Assessment and risk appetite
Our capital management approach is underpinned by a Global Capital 
Risk policy and supporting frameworks for recovery and resolution 
planning and stress testing. The policy sets out our approach to 
determining key capital risk appetites including CET1, total capital, 
minimum requirements for own funds and eligible liabilities (‘MREL’), 
the leverage ratio and double leverage. Our internal capital adequacy 
assessment process (‘ICAAP’) is an assessment of the Group’s 
capital position, outlining both regulatory and internal capital resources 
and requirements resulting from HSBC’s business model, strategy, 
risk profile and management, performance and planning, risks to 
capital, and the implications of stress testing. Our assessment of 
capital adequacy is driven by an assessment of risks. These risks 
include credit, market, operational, pensions, insurance, structural 
foreign exchange, interest rate risk in the banking book and group 
risk. Climate risk is also considered as part of the ICAAP, and we are 
continuing to develop our approach. The Group’s ICAAP supports the 
Risk review
200
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

determination of the consolidated capital risk appetite and target 
ratios, as well as enables the assessment and determination of capital 
requirements by regulators. Subsidiaries prepare ICAAPs in line with 
global guidance, while considering their local regulatory regimes to 
determine their own risk appetites and ratios.
HSBC Holdings is the provider of MREL to its subsidiaries, including 
equity and non-equity capital. These investments are funded by HSBC 
Holdings’ own equity capital and MREL-eligible debt. MREL includes 
own funds and liabilities that can be written down or converted into 
capital resources in order to absorb losses or recapitalise a bank in the 
event of its failure. In line with our existing structure and business 
model, HSBC has three resolution groups – the European Resolution 
Group, the Asian Resolution Group and the US Resolution Group. 
There are some smaller entities that fall outside these resolution 
groups.
HSBC Holdings seeks to maintain a prudent balance between the 
composition of its capital and its investments in subsidiaries. 
As a matter of long-standing policy, the holding company group 
retains a substantial holdings capital buffer comprising cash and other 
high-quality liquid assets, which at 31 December 2024 was in excess 
of $20bn, our target operating level.
We aim to ensure that management has oversight of our liquidity and 
funding risks at Group and entity level through governance 
arrangements, in line with our risk management framework. We 
manage liquidity and funding risk at an operating entity level in 
accordance with globally consistent policies, procedures and reporting 
standards. This ensures that obligations can be met in a timely 
manner, in the jurisdiction where they fall due.
Operating entities are required to meet internal minimum 
requirements and any applicable regulatory requirements at all times. 
These requirements are assessed through our internal liquidity 
adequacy assessment process (‘ILAAP’), which ensures that 
operating entities have strategies, policies, processes and systems 
for the identification, measurement, management and monitoring of 
liquidity risk over an appropriate set of time horizons, including intraday. The ILAAP informs the setting of risk appetite. It also assesses 
the capability to manage liquidity and funding effectively in each major 
entity. These metrics are set and managed locally but are subject to 
global review and challenge to ensure consistency of approach and 
application of the Group’s policies and controls.
Planning and performance
Capital and RWA plans form part of the annual financial resource plan 
that is approved by the Board. Capital and RWA forecasts are 
submitted to the Group Executive Committee on a monthly basis, and 
capital and RWAs are monitored and managed against the plan. The 
responsibility for global capital allocation principles rests with the 
Group Chief Financial Officer, supported by the Group Capital 
Management Meeting. This is a specialist forum addressing capital 
management, reporting into Holdings ALCO. 
Through our internal governance processes, we seek to strengthen 
discipline over our investment and capital allocation decisions, and to 
ensure that returns on investment meet management’s objectives. 
The Group allocates financial resources to businesses and entities to 
support the execution of our strategy and to meet their regulatory and 
economic capital needs. We evaluate and manage business returns 
by using a return on average tangible equity measure and a related 
economic profit measure.
Funding and liquidity plans also form part of the financial resource 
plan that is approved by the Board. The Board-level appetite measures 
are the liquidity coverage ratio (‘LCR’) and net stable funding ratio 
(‘NSFR’), together with an internal liquidity metric, at entity level. In 
addition, we use a wider set of measures to manage an appropriate 
funding and liquidity profile, including legal entity depositor 
concentration limits, intra-day liquidity, forward-looking funding 
assessments and other key measures.
Risks to capital and liquidity
Outside the stress testing framework, other risks may be identified 
that have the potential to affect our RWAs, capital and/or liquidity 
position. Downside and upside scenarios are assessed against our 
management objectives, and mitigating actions are assigned as 
necessary. We closely monitor future regulatory developments and 
continue to evaluate the impact of these upon our capital and liquidity 
requirements, particularly those related to the UK’s implementation of 
the outstanding measures to be implemented from the Basel III 
reforms (‘Basel 3.1‘). 
Regulatory developments
The Prudential Regulation Authority (‘PRA‘) published the second part 
of its near-final rules on the UK’s implementation of Basel 3.1 on 
12 September 2024. On 17 January 2025, the PRA revised the 
implementation date to 1 January 2027 to allow greater clarity 
regarding implementation in the United States. The Risk Weighted 
Asset (‘RWA‘) output floor is now subject to a three-year transitional 
provision, ensuring that the date for full implementation remains 
1 January 2030. We continue to assess the impact of Basel 3.1 
standards on our capital, including the recent release of more 
beneficial PRA near-final rules, developments in the US and 
associated implementation challenges (including data provision). We 
expect that the impact on our CET1 ratio at 1 January 2027 will be a 
modest benefit.
Regulatory reporting processes and controls
We are advancing a comprehensive initiative aimed at strengthening 
our global regulatory reporting processes and making them more 
sustainable. This multifaceted programme includes enhancing data, 
consistency and controls. This remains a key priority for both HSBC 
management and regulatory authorities.
While this programme continues, there may be further impacts on 
some of our regulatory ratios, such as the CET1, LCR and NSFR, as 
we implement recommended changes and continue to enhance our 
controls across the process.
Stress testing and recovery and resolution 
planning
The Group uses stress testing to inform management of the capital 
and liquidity needed to withstand internal and external shocks, 
including a global economic downturn or a systems failure. Stress 
testing results are also used to inform risk mitigation actions, input 
into global business performance through tangible equity allocation, 
and recovery and resolution planning, as well as to re-evaluate 
business plans where analysis shows capital, liquidity and/or returns 
do not meet their target.
In addition to a range of internal stress tests, we are subject to 
supervisory stress testing in many jurisdictions. These include the 
exercises of the Bank of England (‘BoE’), the US Federal Reserve 
Board, the European Banking Authority, the European Central Bank 
and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority. The results of regulatory 
stress testing and our internal stress tests are used when assessing 
our internal capital and liquidity requirements through the ICAAP and 
ILAAP. The outcomes of stress testing exercises carried out by the 
PRA and other regulators feed into the setting of regulatory minimum 
ratios and buffers.
We maintain recovery plans for the Group and material entities, which 
set out potential options management could take in a range of stress 
scenarios that could result in a breach of capital or liquidity buffers.
The Group recovery plan sets out the framework and governance 
arrangements to support restoring HSBC to a stable and viable 
position, and so lowering the probability of failure from either 
idiosyncratic company-specific stress or systemic market-wide issues. 
Our material entities’ recovery plans provide detailed actions that 
management would consider taking in a stress scenario should their 
positions deteriorate and threaten to breach risk appetite and 
regulatory minimum levels. This is to help ensure that HSBC entities 
can stabilise their financial position and recover from financial losses 
in a stress environment.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
201
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The Group has capabilities, resources and arrangements in place to 
address the unlikely event that HSBC might not be recoverable and 
would therefore need to be resolved by regulators. In August 2024, 
the Group and the Bank of England (‘BoE’) publicly disclosed the 
status of HSBC’s progress against the BoE’s Resolvability 
Assessment Framework (‘RAF‘). The BoE acknowledged the 
significant progress made by HSBC in enhancing its resolvability 
capabilities.
Overall, our recovery and resolution planning helps safeguard the 
Group’s financial and operational stability. HSBC has a programme of 
continuous improvement to maintain and enhance its recovery and 
resolution capabilities, designed to meet the BoE’s expectations and 
RAF requirements.
Measurement of interest rate risk in 
the banking book processes
Assessment and risk appetite
Interest rate risk in the banking book (‘IRRBB’) is the risk of an 
adverse impact to earnings or capital due to changes in market 
interest rates or changes in expected interest rate repricing of client 
products that impact banking book positions. It is generated by our 
non-traded assets and liabilities, specifically loans, deposits and 
financial instruments that are not held for trading intent or in order to 
hedge positions held with trading intent. 
Our global IRRBB risk management framework is designed to ensure 
that all material sources of IRRBB are identified, measured, managed, 
and monitored, with policies and frameworks in place.
Our IRRBB risks are measured and managed using a combination of 
earnings-based and economic value measures to ensure that the 
balance between stabilising earnings and generating value sensitivity 
is managed appropriately. These metrics measure IRRBB risks across 
the banking book, to support the overall monitoring against risk 
appetite, including:
–
Banking Net Interest Income (‘BNII’) Sensitivity; and 
–
Economic Value of Equity (‘EVE’) Sensitivity.
Banking net interest income sensitivity 
BNII sensitivity captures the risk to earnings generated from the 
Banking Book from changes in market implied interest rates over a 
12-month period using static rolling balance sheet assumptions.
The static rolling balance sheet assumptions are in place to ensure 
that IRRBB management actions are focused on risks which can be 
managed within Treasury. A notable exception to this is related to the 
price sensitivity of certain interest bearing non-maturity deposits, 
where we apply dynamic assumptions to ensure we capture any 
potential margin widening or compression over the corresponding 
shock horizon and rate scenario.
Economic value of equity sensitivity
EVE measures the present value of our banking book assets and 
liabilities excluding equity, based on a run-off balance sheet. EVE 
sensitivity measures the impact to EVE from a movement in interest 
rates, including the assumed term profile of non-maturing deposits 
having adjusted for stability and price sensitivity. It is measured and 
reported as part of our internal risk metrics, regulatory rules (including 
the Supervisory Outlier Test) and Pillar 3 disclosures. 
 Further details of HSBC’s risk management of interest rate risk in the banking 
book can be found in the Group’s Pillar 3 Disclosures at 31 December 2024.
Other Group risks
Non-trading book foreign exchange 
exposures
Structural foreign exchange exposures
Structural foreign exchange exposures arise from capital invested or 
net assets in a foreign operation. A foreign operation is an entity that 
is a subsidiary, associate, joint venture or branch of a reporting entity 
the activities of which are based or conducted in a country or currency 
other than those of the reporting entity. An entity’s functional 
reporting currency is normally that of the primary economic 
environment in which the entity operates.
Exchange differences on structural exposures are recognised in other 
comprehensive income. We use the US dollar as our presentation 
currency in our consolidated financial statements because the US 
dollar and currencies linked to it form the major currency bloc in which 
we transact and fund our business. Therefore, our consolidated 
balance sheet is affected by exchange differences between the US 
dollar and all the non-US dollar functional currencies of underlying 
foreign operations.
Our structural foreign exchange exposures are managed with the 
primary objective of ensuring, where practical, that our consolidated 
capital ratios and the capital ratios of individual banking subsidiaries 
are largely protected from the effect of changes in exchange rates. 
We hedge structural foreign exchange positions where it is capital 
efficient to do so, and subject to approved limits. This is achieved 
through a combination of net investment hedges and economic 
hedges. Hedging positions are monitored and rebalanced periodically 
to manage RWA or downside risks associated with HSBC’s foreign 
currency investments.
 For further details of our structural foreign exchange exposures, see page 211.
Transactional foreign exchange exposures
Transactional foreign exchange risk arises primarily from day-to-day 
transactions in the banking book generating profit and loss or fair 
value through other comprehensive income reserves in a currency 
other than the reporting currency of the operating entity. Transactional 
foreign exchange exposure generated through profit and loss is 
periodically transferred to Markets and Securities Services and 
managed within limits, with the exception of limited residual foreign 
exchange exposure arising from timing differences or for other 
reasons. Transactional foreign exchange exposure generated through 
other comprehensive income reserves is managed by Global Treasury 
within approved appetite.
HSBC Holdings risk management
As a financial services holding company, HSBC Holdings has limited 
market risk activities. Its activities predominantly involve maintaining 
sufficient capital resources to support the Group’s diverse activities; 
allocating these capital resources across the Group’s businesses; 
earning dividend and interest income on its investments in the 
businesses; payment of operating expenses; providing dividend 
payments to its equity shareholders and interest payments to 
providers of debt capital; and maintaining a supply of short-term liquid 
assets for deployment under extraordinary circumstances. 
The main market risks to which HSBC Holdings is exposed are 
banking book interest rate risk and foreign currency risk. Exposure to 
these risks arises from short-term cash balances, funding positions 
held, loans to subsidiaries, investments in long-term financial assets, 
financial liabilities including debt capital issued, and structural foreign 
exchange hedges. In addition, the impacts of the American 
Depository Receipts in Grupo Financiero Galicia received as part of 
the purchase consideration for HSBC Argentina are recognised by 
HSBC Holdings. The objective of HSBC Holdings’ market risk 
management strategy is to manage volatility in capital resources, cash 
flows and distributable reserves that could be caused by movements 
in market parameters. Market risk for HSBC Holdings is monitored by 
Holdings ALCO in accordance with its risk appetite statement.
Risk review
202
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

HSBC Holdings uses interest rate swaps and cross-currency interest 
rate swaps to manage the interest rate risk and foreign currency risk 
arising from its long-term debt issues. It also uses forward foreign 
exchange contracts to manage its structural foreign exchange 
exposures.
For quantitative disclosures on HSBC Holdings’ interest rate risk in the 
banking book see page 215.
Pension risk management processes
Our global pensions strategy is to move from defined benefit to 
defined contribution plans, where local law allows and it is considered 
competitive to do so. Our most material defined benefit plans have 
been closed to new entrants for many years, and the majority 
(including the largest plan in the UK) are also closed to future accrual.
In defined contribution pension plans, the contributions that HSBC is 
required to make are known, while the ultimate pension benefit will 
vary, typically with investment returns achieved by investment 
choices made by the employee. While the market risk to HSBC of 
defined contribution plans is low, the Group is still exposed to 
operational and reputational risk.
In defined benefit pension plans, the level of pension benefit is 
known. Therefore, the level of contributions required by HSBC will 
vary due to a number of risks, including:
–
investments delivering a return below the level required to provide 
the projected plan benefits;
–
the prevailing economic environment leading to corporate failures, 
thus triggering write-downs in asset values (both equity and debt);
–
a change in either interest rates or inflation expectations, causing 
an increase in the value of plan liabilities; and
–
plan members living longer than expected (known as longevity 
risk).
Pension risk is assessed using an economic capital model that takes 
into account potential variations in these factors. The impact of these 
variations on both pension assets and pension liabilities is assessed 
using a one-in-200-year stress test. Scenario analysis and other stress 
tests are also used to support pension risk management, including 
the review of de-risking opportunities. 
To fund the benefits associated with defined benefit plans, 
sponsoring Group companies, and in some instances employees, 
make regular contributions in accordance with advice from actuaries 
and in consultation with the plan’s fiduciaries where relevant. These 
contributions are normally set to ensure that there are sufficient funds 
to meet the cost of the accruing benefits for the future service of 
active members. However, higher contributions are required when 
plan assets are considered insufficient to cover the existing pension 
liabilities. Contribution rates are typically revised annually or once 
every three years, depending on the plan.
The defined benefit plans invest contributions in a range of 
investments designed to limit the risk of assets failing to meet a 
plan’s liabilities. Any changes in expected returns from the 
investments may also change future contribution requirements. In 
pursuit of these long-term objectives, an overall target allocation is 
established between asset classes of the defined benefit plan. In 
addition, each permitted asset class has its own benchmarks, such as 
stock-market or property valuation indices or liability characteristics. 
The benchmarks are reviewed at least once every three to five years 
and more frequently if required by local legislation or circumstances. 
The process generally involves an extensive asset and liability review.
In addition, some of the Group’s pension plans hold longevity swap 
contracts. These arrangements provide long-term protection to the 
relevant plans against costs resulting from pensioners or their 
dependants living longer than initially expected. The most sizeable 
plan to do this is the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme, which holds 
longevity swaps covering approximately 50% of the plan’s pensioner 
liabilities.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
203
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Capital risk in 2024 
Capital overview
Capital and liquidity adequacy metrics
At
31 Dec 2024
31 Dec 2023
Risk-weighted assets (‘RWAs’) ($bn)
Credit risk
 
657.9 
683.9 
Counterparty credit risk
 
37.7 
35.5 
Market risk
 
36.2 
37.5 
Operational risk
 
106.5 
97.2 
Total RWAs
 
838.3 
854.1 
Capital on a transitional basis ($bn)
Common equity tier 1 capital
 
124.9 
126.5 
Tier 1 capital
 
144.1 
144.2 
Total capital
 
172.4 
171.2 
Capital ratios on a transitional basis (%)
Common equity tier 1 ratio
 
14.9 
 
14.8 
Tier 1 ratio
 
17.2 
 
16.9 
Total capital ratio
 
20.6 
 
20.0 
Capital on an end point basis ($bn)
Common equity tier 1 (‘CET1’) capital
 
124.9 
126.5 
Tier 1 capital
 
144.1 
144.2 
Total capital
 
168.5 
167.1 
Capital ratios on an end point basis (%)
Common equity tier 1 ratio
 
14.9 
 
14.8 
Tier 1 ratio
 
17.2 
 
16.9 
Total capital ratio
 
20.1 
 
19.6 
Liquidity coverage ratio (‘LCR’)
Total high-quality liquid assets ($bn)
649.2
647.5
Total net cash outflow ($bn)
470.7
477.1
LCR (%)1
 
138 
 
136 
Net stable funding ratio (‘NSFR’)1,2
Total available stable funding ($bn)
1,523.4
1,601.9
Total required stable funding ($bn)
1,064.5
1,162.3
NSFR (%)
 
143 
 
138 
1 We enhanced our liquidity consolidation process in 2Q24 by revising provisions that addressed historical limitations. As our Group LCR and NSFR are reported on 
an average basis, the benefit of these changes incrementally increased our LCR and NSFR by circa 3% and 11% during the year, respectively. Compared to year 
ended 31 December 2023, the increase in LCR was mainly driven by these enhancements. The associated NSFR increase driven by these changes was partly 
offset by higher required stable funding primarily due to a rise in financial investments and derivatives activities.
2 We enhanced our calculation process during 1Q24 and our NSFR comparatives have been restated.
References to EU regulations and directives (including technical 
standards) should, as applicable, be read as references to the UK’s 
version of such regulation or directive, as onshored into UK law under 
the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018, and as may be 
subsequently amended under UK law.
Capital figures and ratios in the previous table are calculated in 
accordance with the regulatory requirements of the Capital 
Requirements Regulation and Directive, the CRR II regulation and the 
Prudential Regulation Authority (‘PRA’) Rulebook (‘CRR II’). 
The table presents them under the transitional arrangements in CRR II 
for capital instruments and after their expiry, known as the end point.
Regulatory numbers and ratios are presented as at the date of 
reporting. Small changes may exist between these numbers and 
ratios and those submitted in regulatory filings. Where differences are 
significant, we may restate in subsequent periods.
Risk review
204
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Own funds disclosure
(Audited)
At
31 Dec 2024
31 Dec 2023
Ref*
$m
$m
Common equity tier 1 capital: instruments and reserves
1
Capital instruments and the related share premium accounts
 
22,378 
22,964 
– ordinary shares
 
22,378 
22,964 
2
Retained earnings1
 
138,959 
135,614 
3
Accumulated other comprehensive income (and other reserves)1
 
(8,410) 
(7,195) 
5
Minority interests (amount allowed in consolidated CET1)
 
3,960 
3,917 
5a
Independently reviewed net profits net of any foreseeable charge or dividend
 
7,184 
10,568 
6
Common equity tier 1 capital before regulatory adjustments
 
164,071 
165,868 
28
Total regulatory adjustments to common equity tier 1
 
(39,160) 
(39,367) 
29
Common equity tier 1 capital
 
124,911 
126,501 
36
Additional tier 1 capital before regulatory adjustments
 
19,286 
17,732 
43
Total regulatory adjustments to additional tier 1 capital
 
(70) 
(70) 
44
Additional tier 1 capital
 
19,216 
17,662 
45
Tier 1 capital
 
144,127 
144,163 
51
Tier 2 capital before regulatory adjustments
 
29,334 
28,148 
57
Total regulatory adjustments to tier 2 capital
 
(1,075) 
(1,107) 
58
Tier 2 capital
 
28,259 
27,041 
59
Total capital
 
172,386 
171,204 
* The references identify lines prescribed in the PRA template, which are applicable and where there is a value.
1 We have updated the classification between components of shareholders’ equity to present ‘Retained Earnings’ in Row 2 and ‘Accumulated other 
comprehensive income (and other reserves)’ in Row 3. The comparatives have been aligned.
The CET1 capital ratio increased marginally from 14.8% at 
31 December 2023 to 14.9% at 31 December 2024, reflecting a 
decrease in RWAs of $15.8bn, partly offset by a decrease in CET1 
capital of $1.6bn. The key drivers of the overall rise in our CET1 ratio 
during the year were:
–
a 0.9 percentage point increase, excluding foreign exchange 
fluctuations, was primarily driven by a reduction in RWAs through 
strategic transactions, and the gain on disposal of our Canadian 
banking business adjusted for the $0.21 per share special 
dividend;
–
a 0.9 percentage point reduction excluding foreign exchange 
fluctuations, owing to higher RWAs mainly driven by organic 
balance sheet growth and credit migrations excluding strategic 
transactions;
–
a 0.4 percentage point increase from capital generation, mainly 
through regulatory profits and other reserves less dividends and 
share buy-backs; and
–
a 0.3 percentage point decrease from the adverse impact of 
regulatory deductions and foreign exchange fluctuations on our 
RWAs and capital.
Our Pillar 2A requirement at 31 December 2024, as per the PRA’s 
Individual Capital Requirement based on a point-in-time assessment, 
was equivalent to 2.6% of RWAs, of which 1.5% was required to be 
met by CET1. Throughout 2024 we complied with the PRA’s 
regulatory capital adequacy requirements.
Risk-weighted assets 
RWAs by global business
WPB
CMB
GBM
Corporate
Centre
Total
RWAs
$bn
$bn
$bn
$bn
$bn
Credit risk
 
143.3 
299.7 
132.6 
82.3 
657.9 
Counterparty credit risk
 
0.7 
0.2 
35.2 
1.6 
37.7 
Market risk
 
1.1 
0.9 
27.1 
7.1 
36.2 
Operational risk1
 
36.0 
37.1 
37.0 
(3.6) 
106.5 
At 31 Dec 20242
 
181.1 
337.9 
231.9 
87.4 
838.3 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
192.9 
354.5 
218.5 
88.2 
854.1 
1 Operational risk RWAs for HSBC Bank Canada are excluded post the PRA waiver permission granted in October 2024.
2 RWAs balance at 31 December 2024 includes HSBC Argentina operational risk RWAs due to the averaging calculation and will roll off over future reporting 
cycles.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
205
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

RWAs by legal entities1
HSBC 
UK 
Bank 
plc
HSBC 
Bank 
plc
The 
Hongkong 
and Shanghai 
Banking 
Corporation 
Limited
HSBC 
Bank 
Middle 
East 
Limited
HSBC 
North 
America 
Holdings 
Inc
HSBC 
Bank 
Canada3
Grupo 
Financiero 
HSBC, 
S.A.
de C.V.
Other 
trading 
entities4
Holding 
companies, 
shared service 
centres and 
intra-Group 
eliminations
Total 
RWAs
$bn
$bn
$bn
$bn
$bn
$bn
$bn
$bn
$bn
$bn
Credit risk
 
117.2 
71.8 
314.3 
19.3 
60.7 
— 
23.7 
40.7 
10.2 
657.9 
Counterparty credit risk
 
0.3 
19.7 
10.9 
0.6 
3.4 
— 
0.6 
2.2 
— 
37.7 
Market risk2
 
0.2 
26.1 
23.0 
2.1 
2.7 
— 
0.5 
1.3 
1.5 
36.2 
Operational risk3
 
20.6 
20.0 
54.6 
4.6 
7.6 
— 
4.9 
6.5 
(12.3) 
106.5 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
138.3 
137.6 
402.8 
26.6 
74.4 
— 
29.7 
50.7 
(0.6) 
838.3 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
129.2 
131.5 
396.7 
24.3 
72.2 
31.9 
32.6 
59.6 
6.7 
854.1 
1 Balances are on a third-party Group consolidated basis.
2 Market risk RWAs are non-additive across the legal entities due to diversification effects within the Group.
3 Operational risk RWAs for HSBC Bank Canada are excluded post the PRA waiver permission granted in October 2024.
4 RWAs balance at 31 December 2024 includes HSBC Argentina operational risk RWAs due to the averaging calculation and will roll off over future reporting 
cycles.
RWA movement by global business by key driver
Credit risk, counterparty credit risk and operational 
risk
WPB
CMB
GBM
Corporate 
Centre
Market
risk
Total
RWAs
$bn
$bn
$bn
$bn
$bn
$bn
RWAs at 1 Jan 2024
 
191.6 
353.5 
196.3 
75.2 
37.5 
854.1 
Asset size
 
11.1 
17.3 
13.9 
2.6 
4.5 
49.4 
Asset quality
 
1.7 
5.4 
(0.9) 
0.1 
— 
6.3 
Model updates
 
3.2 
0.7 
3.5 
— 
— 
7.4 
Methodology and policy
 
(8.9) 
(3.2) 
0.2 
2.8 
0.2 
(8.9) 
Acquisitions and disposals1
 
(12.3) 
(26.1) 
(3.7) 
0.3 
(6.0) 
(47.8) 
Foreign exchange movements2
 
(6.4) 
(10.6) 
(4.5) 
(0.7) 
— 
(22.2) 
Total RWA movement
 
(11.6) 
(16.5) 
8.5 
5.1 
(1.3) 
(15.8) 
RWAs at 31 Dec 2024³
 
180.0 
337.0 
204.8 
80.3 
36.2 
838.3 
1 Balance includes operational risk RWAs for HSBC Bank Canada post the PRA waiver permission granted in October 2024.
2 Credit risk foreign exchange movements in this disclosure are computed by retranslating the RWAs into US dollars based on the underlying transactional 
currencies, and other movements in the table are presented on a constant currency basis.
3 RWAs balance at 31 December 2024 includes HSBC Argentina operational risk RWAs due to the averaging calculation and will roll off over future reporting 
cycles.
RWA movement by legal entities by key driver1
Credit risk, counterparty credit risk and operational risk
HSBC 
UK Bank 
plc
HSBC 
Bank plc
The 
Hongkong 
and 
Shanghai 
Banking 
Corporation 
Limited
HSBC 
Bank 
Middle 
East 
Limited
HSBC 
North 
America 
Holdings 
Inc
HSBC 
Bank 
Canada2
Grupo 
Financiero 
HSBC, 
S.A.
de C.V.
Other 
trading 
entities4
Holding 
companies, 
shared 
service 
centres and 
intra-Group 
eliminations
Market 
risk
Total 
RWAs
$bn
$bn
$bn
$bn
$bn
$bn
$bn
$bn
$bn
$bn
$bn
RWAs at 1 Jan 2024
 
129.0 
108.8 
369.3 
21.5 
69.6 
31.1 
31.9 
58.0 
(2.6) 
37.5 
854.1 
Asset size
 
10.2 
4.3 
15.5 
2.5 
0.6 
— 
2.3 
11.0 
(1.5) 
4.5 
49.4 
Asset quality
 
1.9 
0.5 
6.2 
(0.8) 
0.5 
— 
— 
(2.0) 
— 
— 
6.3 
Model updates
 
0.1 
0.8 
5.3 
0.7 
0.4 
— 
— 
0.1 
— 
— 
7.4 
Methodology and policy
 
(0.6) 
4.5 
(11.5) 
0.7 
0.7 
— 
— 
(4.6) 
1.7 
0.2 
(8.9) 
Acquisitions and 
disposals2
 
— 
(3.9) 
0.1 
— 
— 
(30.5) 
— 
(7.8) 
0.3 
(6.0) 
(47.8) 
Foreign exchange 
movements3
 
(2.5) 
(3.5) 
(5.1) 
(0.1) 
(0.1) 
(0.6) 
(5.0) 
(5.3) 
— 
— 
(22.2) 
Total RWA movement
 
9.1 
2.7 
10.5 
3.0 
2.1 
(31.1) 
(2.7) 
(8.6) 
0.5 
(1.3) 
(15.8) 
RWAs at 31 Dec 2024
 
138.1 
111.5 
379.8 
24.5 
71.7 
— 
29.2 
49.4 
(2.1) 
36.2 
838.3 
1 Balances are on a third-party Group consolidated basis.
2 Balance includes operational risk RWAs for HSBC Bank Canada post the PRA waiver permission granted in October 2024.
3 Credit risk foreign exchange movements in this disclosure are computed by retranslating the RWAs into US dollars based on the underlying transactional 
currencies, and other movements in the table are presented on a constant currency basis.
4 RWAs balance at 31 December 2024 includes HSBC Argentina operational risk RWAs due to the averaging calculation and will roll off over future reporting 
cycles.
Risk review
206
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

RWAs decreased by $15.8bn during the year, mainly due to strategic 
disposals of $47.8bn and foreign currency translation differences of 
$22.2bn, which were partly offset by asset size movements of 
$49.4bn.
Asset size
Asset size RWAs increased by $49.4bn, including a $14.6bn rise in 
operational risk RWAs driven by an increase in average income.
CMB RWAs rose by $17.3bn, including a $6.4bn increase in 
operational risk RWAs, and additional RWAs contributed by an 
increase in corporate lending, mainly in HSBC UK Bank plc and higher 
sovereign exposures in Other trading entities and Asia.
GBM RWAs increased by $13.9bn, mainly reflecting an increase in 
operational risk RWAs of $5.5bn, higher securities financing 
exposures in HSBC Bank plc, and mark-to-market movements and 
organic growth in counterparty credit risk, mainly in Asia. Further 
RWA increases were due to higher sovereign exposures in Asia and 
Other trading entities.
WPB RWAs increased by $11.1bn, including a $4.2bn rise in 
operational risk RWAs, and due to retail mortgage growth in the US 
and HSBC UK Bank plc, and higher sovereign exposures in Other 
trading entities and Asia.
Corporate Centre RWAs increased by $2.6bn, primarily due to lending 
growth in SAB, reflected in Other trading entities.
Market risk RWAs increased by $4.5bn, which was mainly attributed 
to an increase in stressed value at risk due to higher sensitivities to 
interest rate shocks under the stress scenario, and the higher 
incremental risk charge due to increased positions, mainly in Asia and 
HSBC Bank plc.
Asset quality
The $6.3bn rise in RWAs was mainly due to unfavourable credit 
migrations in Asia, including in the Hong Kong commercial real estate 
sector, which was partly offset by favourable credit risk migrations in 
Sri Lanka and Other trading entities. A further RWA increase in HSBC 
UK Bank plc was mainly attributed to changes in the loan-to-value mix 
of our mortgages portfolio.
Model updates
The $7.4bn RWAs increase mainly followed a revision to the definition 
of default in our PD models for exposures to financial institutions, and 
an increase in the post-model adjustments for the Hong Kong models.
Methodology and policy
The $8.9bn decrease in RWAs largely reflected a $7.5bn fall due to 
regulatory changes related to the risk-weighting of residential 
mortgages in Hong Kong. Credit risk parameter refinements, mainly in 
Asia, further contributed to the fall in RWAs.
Acquisitions and disposals
RWAs decreased by $47.8bn, predominantly from the disposal of our 
banking business in Canada, including operational risk RWAs post the 
PRA waiver permission granted in October 2024, the sale of our 
business in Argentina and the sale of our retail banking operations in 
France.
Leverage ratio
At
31 Dec 2024
31 Dec 2023
$bn
$bn
Tier 1 capital (leverage)
 
144.1 
144.2 
Total leverage ratio exposure
 
2,571.1 
2,574.8 
%
%
Leverage ratio
 
5.6 
 
5.6 
Our leverage ratio was 5.6% at 31 December 2024, unchanged from 
31 December 2023. Leverage exposures decreased primarily due to 
strategic disposals and adverse foreign currency translation 
differences, which exceeded the increase in the underlying balance 
sheet. This was offset by a fall in the tier 1 capital.
At 31 December 2024, our UK minimum leverage ratio requirement of 
3.25% was supplemented by a leverage ratio buffer of 0.9%, which 
consists of an additional leverage ratio buffer of 0.7% and a 
countercyclical leverage ratio buffer of 0.2%. These buffers translated 
into capital values of $18.0bn and $5.1bn respectively.
Regulatory transitional arrangements 
for IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’
We have adopted the regulatory transitional arrangements of the 
Capital Requirements Regulation for IFRS 9, including paragraph four 
of article 473a. These allow banks to add back to their capital base a 
proportion of the impact that IFRS 9 has upon their loan loss 
allowances. Our capital and ratios are presented under these 
arrangements throughout the tables in this section, including the end 
point figures.
Pillar 3 disclosure requirements
Pillar 3 of the Basel regulatory framework is related to market 
discipline and aims to make financial services firms more transparent 
by requiring publication of wide-ranging information on their risks, 
capital and management.
For further details, see our Pillar 3 Disclosures at 31 December 2024, which 
is expected to be published on or around 19 February 2025 at 
www.hsbc.com/investors.
Liquidity and funding risk in 2024
Liquidity metrics
At 31 December 2024, all of the Group’s material operating entities 
were above the required regulatory minimum liquidity and funding 
levels. Each entity maintains sufficient unencumbered liquid assets to 
comply with local and regulatory requirements. Each entity maintains 
a sufficient stable funding profile and is assessed using the NSFR or 
other appropriate metrics. 
In addition to regulatory metrics, we use a wide set of measures to 
manage our liquidity and funding profile. 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
207
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The Group liquidity and funding position on an average basis is analysed in the following sections.
Operating entities’ liquidity
At 31 Dec 2024
LCR1
HQLA
Net 
outflows
NSFR1
%
$bn
$bn
%
HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank)2
 
190 
117 
61 
 
154 
HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced bank)3
 
148 
138 
93 
 
115 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation – Hong Kong branch4
 
191 
145 
76 
 
124 
HSBC Singapore5
 
287 
32 
11 
 
184 
Hang Seng Bank
 
299 
57 
19 
 
174 
HSBC Bank China
 
191 
27 
14 
 
147 
HSBC Bank USA
 
167 
80 
48 
 
127 
HSBC Continental Europe
 
149 
82 
55 
 
139 
HSBC Bank Middle East Ltd – UAE branch
 
251 
14 
6 
 
151 
HSBC Canada
 
— 
— 
— 
 
— 
HSBC Mexico
 
164 
9 
6 
 
125 
At 31 Dec 2023
HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank)2
 
201 
118 
59 
 
158 
HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced bank)3
 
148 
132 
89 
 
116 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation – Hong Kong branch4
 
192 
147 
77 
 
127 
HSBC Singapore5
 
292 
26 
9 
 
174 
Hang Seng Bank
 
254 
52 
21 
 
163 
HSBC Bank China
 
170 
24 
14 
 
139 
HSBC Bank USA
 
172 
82 
48 
 
131 
HSBC Continental Europe
 
158 
83 
52 
 
137 
HSBC Bank Middle East Ltd – UAE branch
 
281 
13 
5 
 
163 
HSBC Canada
 
164 
21 
13 
 
129 
HSBC Mexico
 
149 
8 
5 
 
124 
1
The LCR and NSFR ratios presented in the above table are based on average values. The LCR is the average of the preceding 12 months. The NSFR is the 
average of the preceding four quarters.
2
HSBC UK Bank plc refers to the HSBC UK liquidity group, which comprises five legal entities: HSBC UK Bank plc, Marks and Spencer Financial Services plc, 
HSBC Private Bank (UK) Ltd, HSBC Innovation Bank Limited and HSBC Trust Company (UK) Limited, managed as a single operating entity, in line with the 
application of UK liquidity regulation as agreed with the PRA.
3
HSBC Bank plc includes overseas branches and special purpose entities consolidated by HSBC for financial statements purposes.
4
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation – Hong Kong branch represents the material activities of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
Limited. It is monitored and controlled for liquidity and funding risk purposes as a stand-alone operating entity.
5
HSBC Singapore includes HSBC Bank Singapore Limited and The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation – Singapore branch. Liquidity and funding risk is 
monitored and controlled at country level in line with the local regulator’s approval. 
Consolidated liquidity metrics
Net stable funding ratio
We manage funding risk based on the PRA’s NSFR rules. The Group’s NSFR at 31 December 2024, calculated from the average of the four 
preceding quarters, was 143%.
At1,2
31 Dec 2024
30 Jun 2024
31 Dec 2023
$bn
$bn
$bn
Total available stable funding ($bn)
 
1,523 
1,544 
1,602 
Total required stable funding ($bn)
 
1,064 
1,115 
1,162 
NSFR ratio (%)
 
143 
 
138 
 
138 
1 We enhanced our liquidity consolidation process in 2Q24 by revising provisions that addressed historical limitations. As our Group NSFR is reported on an 
average basis, the benefit of these changes incrementally increased our NSFR by circa 11% during the year by reducing required stable funding. This reduction 
was partly offset by a rise in financial investments and derivatives activities, resulting in a net 5% increase of NSFR compared with year ended 31 December 
2023.
2 We enhanced our calculation process during 1Q24 and our NSFR comparatives have been restated.
Risk review
208
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Liquidity coverage ratio
At 31 December 2024, the average high-quality liquid assets (‘HQLA‘) 
held at entity level amounted to $790bn (31 December 2023: 
$795bn). The Group consolidation methodology includes a deduction 
to reflect the impact of limitations in the transferability of entity 
liquidity around the Group. That resulted in an adjustment of $141bn 
to LCR HQLA and $6bn to LCR inflows on an average basis.
We enhanced our liquidity consolidation process in 2Q24 by revising 
the provisions that addressed historical limitations. As Group LCR is 
reported on an average basis, the benefits of these changes have 
incrementally increased our LCR by circa 3% during the year by 
reducing net outflows. This reduction was partly offset by an organic 
increase in outflows, mostly in Asia, resulting in a net 2% increase of 
our LCR compared with year ended 31 December 2023.
At1
31 Dec 2024
30 Jun 2024 31 Dec 2023
$bn
$bn
$bn
High-quality liquid assets (in 
entities)
 
790 
780 
795 
Group LCR HQLA
 
649 
646 
648 
Net outflows
471 
472 
477 
Liquidity coverage ratio (%)
 
138 
 
137 
 
136 
Adjustment for transfer 
restrictions2
 
(147) 
(141) 
(154) 
1 Group LCR numbers above are based on average values. The LCR is the 
average of the preceding 12 months.
2 This includes adjustments made to high-quality liquid assets and inflows in 
entities to reflect liquidity transfer restrictions. 
Liquid assets
After the $141bn deduction, the average Group LCR HQLA of $649bn 
(31 December 2023: $648bn) was held in a range of asset classes and 
currencies. Of these, 95% were eligible as level 1 (31 December 
2023: 97%).
The following tables reflect the composition of the average liquidity 
pool by asset type and currency at 31 December 2024.
Liquidity pool by asset type1
Liquidity 
pool
Cash
Level 12
Level 22
$bn
$bn
$bn
$bn
Cash and balance at central 
bank
 
266 
266 
— 
— 
Central and local government 
bonds
 
352 
— 
326 
26 
Regional government public 
sector entities
 
2 
— 
2 
— 
International organisation and 
multilateral developments 
banks
 
18 
— 
18 
— 
Covered bonds
 
8 
— 
2 
6 
Other
 
3 
— 
1 
2 
Total at 31 Dec 2024
 
649 
266 
349 
34 
Total at 31 Dec 2023
 
648 
310 
317 
21 
1 Group liquid assets numbers are based on average values.
2 As defined in EU regulations, level 1 assets means ‘assets of extremely high 
liquidity and credit quality’, and level 2 assets means ‘assets of high liquidity 
and credit quality’.
Liquidity pool by currency1
$
£
€
HK$
Other
Total
$bn
$bn
$bn
$bn
$bn
$bn
Liquidity pool at 31 Dec 
2024
 
196 
170 113 
47 
123 
649 
Liquidity pool at 31 Dec 
2023
 
184 
173 112 
51 
128 
648 
1 Group liquid assets numbers are based on average values. 
Sources of funding
Our primary sources of funding are customer current accounts and 
savings deposits payable on demand or at short notice. We issue 
secured and unsecured wholesale securities to supplement customer 
deposits, meet regulatory obligations and to change the currency mix, 
maturity profile or location of our liabilities. 
The following ‘Funding sources’ and ‘Funding uses’ tables provide a 
view of how our consolidated balance sheet is funded. In practice, all 
the principal operating entities are required to manage liquidity and 
funding risk on a stand-alone basis.
The tables analyse our consolidated balance sheet according to the 
assets that primarily arise from operating activities and the sources of 
funding primarily supporting these activities. Assets and liabilities that 
do not arise from operating activities are presented as a net balancing 
source or deployment of funds.
Funding sources 
(Audited)
2024
2023
$m
$m
Customer accounts
 
1,654,955 
1,611,647 
Deposits by banks
 
73,997 
73,163 
Repurchase agreements – non-trading
 
180,880 
172,100 
Debt securities in issue
 
105,785 
93,917 
Cash collateral, margin, settlement accounts and 
items in course of transmission to other banks
 
82,732 
92,550 
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale
 
29,011 
108,406 
Subordinated liabilities
 
25,958 
24,954 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value
 
138,727 
141,426 
Insurance contract liabilities
 
107,629 
120,851 
Trading liabilities
 
65,982 
73,150 
– repos
 
14,806 
12,198 
– stock lending
 
3,525 
3,322 
– other trading liabilities
 
47,651 
57,630 
Total equity
 
192,273 
192,610 
Other balance sheet liabilities
 
359,119 
333,903 
At 31 Dec
 
3,017,048 
3,038,677 
Funding uses
(Audited)
2024
2023
$m
$m
Loans and advances to customers
 
930,658 
938,535 
Loans and advances to banks
 
102,039 
112,902 
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
 
252,549 
252,217 
Cash collateral, margin, settlement accounts and 
items in course of collection from other banks
 
78,538 
96,253 
Assets held for sale
 
27,234 
114,134 
Trading assets
 
314,842 
289,159 
– reverse repos
 
16,823 
16,575 
– stock borrowing
 
8,374 
14,609 
– other trading assets
 
289,645 
257,975 
Financial investments
 
493,166 
442,763 
Cash and balances with central banks
 
267,674 
285,868 
Other balance sheet assets
 
550,348 
506,846 
At 31 Dec
 
3,017,048 
3,038,677 
.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
209
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Wholesale term debt maturity profile
The maturity profile of our wholesale term debt obligations is set out in the following table. The balances in the table are not directly 
comparable with those in the consolidated balance sheet because the table presents gross cash flows relating to principal payments and not 
the balance sheet carrying value, which includes debt securities and subordinated liabilities measured at fair value. 
Wholesale funding cash flows payable by HSBC under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities1
Due not
more 
than
1 month
Due over 
1 month 
but not 
more than 
3 months
Due over 
3 months 
but not 
more than 
6 months
Due over 
6 months 
but not 
more than 
9 months
Due over 
9 months
but not 
more
than 
1 year
Due over
1 year
but not 
more than 
2 years
Due over 
2 years
but not 
more than 
5 years
Due 
over
5 years
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Debt securities issued
 
14,260 
15,011 
13,841 
10,235 
11,644 
29,639 
62,434 
53,814 210,878 
– unsecured CDs and CP
 
5,346 
7,803 
10,495 
6,623 
6,829 
662 
1,787 
1,598 
41,143 
– unsecured senior MTNs
 
7,528 
3,351 
1,014 
1,269 
2,736 
21,593 
47,236 
42,899 127,626 
– unsecured senior structured notes
 
874 
1,826 
2,258 
1,457 
1,526 
6,055 
9,160 
6,520 
29,676 
– secured covered bonds
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
1,254 
— 
1,254 
– secured asset-backed commercial paper
 
488 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
488 
– secured ABS
 
24 
47 
67 
64 
61 
664 
520 
864 
2,311 
– others
 
— 
1,984 
7 
822 
492 
665 
2,477 
1,933 
8,380 
Subordinated liabilities
 
— 
— 
1,737 
1,030 
— 
892 
2,694 
30,349 
36,702 
– subordinated debt securities
 
— 
— 
1,737 
1,030 
— 
892 
2,694 
29,471 
35,824 
– preferred securities
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
878 
878 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
14,260 
15,011 
15,578 
11,265 
11,644 
30,531 
65,128 
84,163 247,580 
Debt securities issued
 
17,620 
9,798 
14,284 
13,226 
12,226 
20,882 
64,010 
50,045 202,091 
– unsecured CDs and CP
 
6,400 
6,777 
7,601 
6,429 
6,513 
1,179 
1,073 
925 
36,897 
– unsecured senior MTNs
 
8,190 
1,160 
4,365 
3,627 
3,267 
12,903 
54,984 
41,007 129,503 
– unsecured senior structured notes
 
2,307 
1,491 
1,617 
2,513 
1,978 
2,924 
2,793 
5,910 
21,533 
– secured covered bonds
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
1,275 
— 
1,275 
– secured asset-backed commercial paper
 
426 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
426 
– secured ABS
 
22 
44 
62 
58 
55 
188 
861 
539 
1,829 
– others
 
275 
326 
639 
599 
413 
3,688 
3,024 
1,664 
10,628 
Subordinated liabilities
 
— 
2,013 
— 
— 
— 
3,358 
4,282 
27,234 
36,887 
– subordinated debt securities
 
— 
2,000 
— 
— 
— 
3,358 
4,282 
25,441 
35,081 
– preferred securities
 
— 
13 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
1,793 
1,806 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
17,620 
11,811 
14,284 
13,226 
12,226 
24,240 
68,292 
77,279 238,978 
1 Excludes financial liabilities of disposal groups.
Risk review
210
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Structural foreign exchange risk in 2024
Structural foreign exchange exposures represent net assets or capital investments in subsidiaries, branches, joint arrangements or associates, 
together with any associated hedges, the functional currencies of which are currencies other than the US dollar. Exchange differences on 
structural exposures are usually recognised in ‘other comprehensive income’.
Hong Kong dollars
 
40,106 
(5,841) 
34,265 
(9,861) 
— 
24,404 
Pounds sterling
 
46,462 
(15,024) 
31,438 
— 
(1,254) 
30,184 
Chinese renminbi
 
35,032 
(4,725) 
30,307 
(1,080) 
— 
29,227 
Euros
 
17,391 
(2,013) 
15,378 
— 
(1,297) 
14,081 
Canadian dollars
 
43 
— 
43 
— 
— 
43 
Indian rupees
 
7,056 
(1,973) 
5,083 
— 
— 
5,083 
Mexican pesos
 
3,991 
— 
3,991 
— 
— 
3,991 
Saudi riyals
 
4,675 
— 
4,675 
— 
— 
4,675 
UAE dirhams
 
5,264 
(893) 
4,371 
(2,543) 
— 
1,828 
Malaysian ringgit
 
3,036 
— 
3,036 
— 
— 
3,036 
Singapore dollars
 
2,405 
— 
2,405 
1,092 
(1,089) 
2,408 
Australian dollars
 
2,126 
— 
2,126 
— 
— 
2,126 
Taiwanese dollars
 
2,199 
(1,015) 
1,184 
— 
— 
1,184 
Indonesian rupiah
 
1,541 
(533) 
1,008 
— 
— 
1,008 
Swiss francs
 
1,096 
(541) 
555 
— 
— 
555 
Korean won
 
1,204 
(756) 
448 
— 
— 
448 
Thai baht
 
976 
(460) 
516 
— 
— 
516 
Egyptian pound
 
891 
— 
891 
— 
— 
891 
Qatari rial
 
728 
(97) 
631 
(299) 
— 
332 
Argentinian peso
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Vietnamese dong
 
769 
— 
769 
— 
— 
769 
Others, each less than $700m
 
4,327 
(463) 
3,864 
— 
— 
3,864 
At 31 Dec
 
181,318 
(34,334) 
146,984 
(12,691) 
(3,640) 
130,653 
2023
Hong Kong dollars
 
39,014 
(5,792) 
33,222 
(7,979) 
— 
25,243 
Pounds sterling
 
46,661 
(16,415) 
30,246 
— 
(1,275) 
28,971 
Chinese renminbi
 
33,809 
(3,299) 
30,510 
(1,066) 
— 
29,444 
Euros
 
15,673 
(515) 
15,158 
— 
(1,384) 
13,774 
Canadian dollars
 
5,418 
(1,076) 
4,342 
— 
— 
4,342 
Indian rupees
 
6,286 
(2,110) 
4,176 
— 
— 
4,176 
Mexican pesos
 
4,883 
— 
4,883 
— 
— 
4,883 
Saudi riyals
 
4,312 
— 
4,312 
— 
— 
4,312 
UAE dirhams
 
4,995 
(613) 
4,382 
(2,761) 
— 
1,621 
Malaysian ringgit
 
2,754 
— 
2,754 
— 
— 
2,754 
Singapore dollars
 
2,345 
(224) 
2,121 
— 
— 
2,121 
Australian dollars
 
2,362 
— 
2,362 
— 
— 
2,362 
Taiwanese dollars
 
2,212 
(1,127) 
1,085 
— 
— 
1,085 
Indonesian rupiah
 
1,535 
(512) 
1,023 
— 
— 
1,023 
Swiss francs
 
1,191 
(526) 
665 
— 
— 
665 
Korean won
 
1,354 
(864) 
490 
— 
— 
490 
Thai baht
 
1,022 
— 
1,022 
— 
— 
1,022 
Egyptian pound
 
959 
— 
959 
— 
— 
959 
Qatari rial
 
834 
(215) 
619 
(299) 
— 
320 
Argentinian peso
 
794 
— 
794 
— 
— 
794 
Vietnamese dong
 
872 
— 
872 
— 
— 
872 
Others, each less than $700m
 
4,386 
(487) 
3,899 
— 
— 
3,899 
At 31 Dec
 
183,671 
(33,775) 
149,896 
(12,105) 
(2,659) 
135,132 
Net structural foreign exchange exposures
2024
Currency of structural exposure
Net investment in 
foreign operations 
(excl noncontrolling interest)
Net 
investment 
hedges
Structural foreign 
exchange 
exposures (preeconomic hedges)
Economic 
hedges – 
structural FX 
hedges1
Economic 
hedges – equity 
securities (AT1)2
Net structural 
foreign 
exchange 
exposures
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
1 Represents hedges that do not qualify as net investment hedges for accounting purposes. The SGD position represents the hedge against our SGD AT1 
issuance. 
2 Represents foreign currency-denominated preference share and AT1 instruments. These are accounted for at historical cost under IFRS Accounting Standards 
and do not qualify as net investment hedges for accounting purposes. The gain or loss arising from changes in the US dollar value of these instruments is 
recognised on redemption in retained earnings.
For a definition of structural foreign exchange exposures, see page 202.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
211
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Interest rate risk in the banking book in 2024
Banking net interest income sensitivity
Banking NII Sensitivity analyses the sensitivity of our banking net 
interest income to interest rate shocks. This metric, which was 
introduced in our Annual Report and Accounts 2023, includes the 
sensitivity arising from the use of banking book liabilities to fund 
trading assets, as well as the currency impacts of vanilla foreign 
exchange swaps to optimise cash management across the Group. 
Banking NII Sensitivity is therefore a more comprehensive measure 
than NII Sensitivity which was disclosed previously and is aligned 
with the presentation of banking net interest income as an alternative 
performance measure intended to approximate the Group’s banking 
revenue that is directly impacted by changes in interest rates.
The following tables set out the assessed impact to a hypothetical 
base case projection of our banking NII under an immediate shock of 
100bps to the current market-implied path of interest rates across all 
currencies on 31 December 2024 (effects in the first, second and 
third years). For example, Year 3 shows the impact of an immediate 
rate shock on the banking NII projected for the third year.
The sensitivities shown represent a hypothetical simulation of the 
base case banking NII, assuming a static balance sheet (specifically 
no assumed migration from current account to term deposits), and no 
management actions from Global Treasury. This also incorporates the 
effect of interest rate behaviouralisation, hypothetical managed rate 
product pricing assumptions, prepayment of mortgages and deposit 
stability. The sensitivity calculations exclude pensions, insurance 
exposures, and our interest in associates.
The sensitivity analysis performed in the case of a down-shock does 
not include floors to market rates, and it does not include floors on 
some wholesale assets and liabilities. However, floors have been 
maintained for deposits and loans to customers where this is 
contractual or where negative rates would not be applied.
As the market and policy rates move, the degree to which these 
changes are passed on to customers will vary based on a number of 
factors, including the absolute level of market rates, regulatory and 
contractual frameworks, and competitive dynamics. To aid 
comparability between markets, we have simplified the basis of 
preparation for our disclosure and have used a 50% pass-on 
assumption for major entities on certain interest-bearing deposits. 
Our asset pass-on assumptions are largely in line with our contractual 
agreements or established market practice, which typically results in 
a significant portion of interest rate changes being passed on. 
An immediate interest rate rise of 100bps would increase projected 
banking NII by $2.1bn. An immediate interest rate fall of 100bps 
would decrease projected banking NII by $2.9bn.
The sensitivity of banking NII for 12 months as at 31 December 2024 
decreased by $0.7bn in the plus 100bps parallel shock and by $0.5bn 
in the minus 100bps parallel shock, when compared with 
31 December 2023. The decline in sensitivities is primarily due to an 
increase in stabilisation activities in line with our strategy.
 For further details of measurement of interest rate risk in the banking book, 
see page 202. 
Banking NII sensitivity to an instantaneous change in yield curves (12 months) – Year 1 sensitivity by currency
Currency
$
HK$
£
€
Other
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Change in Jan 2025 to Dec 2025 (based on balance sheet at 31 Dec 2024)
+100bps parallel
572
220
219
301
821
2,133
-100bps parallel
 
(862) 
(403) 
(353) 
(314) 
(954) 
(2,886) 
Change in Jan 2024 to Dec 2024 (based on balance sheet at 31 Dec 2023)
+100bps parallel
 
343 
411 
496 
285 
1,297 
2,832 
-100bps parallel
 
(494) 
(493) 
(602) 
(304) 
(1,460) 
(3,353) 
Banking NII sensitivity to an instantaneous down 100bps parallel change in yield curves – Year 2 and Year 3 sensitivity by currency
Currency
$
HK$
£
€
Other
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Change in banking NII (based on balance sheet at 31 Dec 2024)
Year 2 (Jan 2026 to Dec 2026)
 
(1,226) 
(509) 
(563) 
(444) 
(1,333) 
(4,075) 
Year 3 (Jan 2027 to Dec 2027)
 
(1,531) 
(550) 
(1,022) 
(504) 
(1,449) 
(5,056) 
Change in banking NII (based on balance sheet at 31 Dec 2023)
Year 2 (Jan 2025 to Dec 2025)
 
(1,015) 
(693) 
(938) 
(333) 
(1,798) 
(4,777) 
Year 3 (Jan 2026 to Dec 2026)
 
(1,289) 
(761) 
(1,439) 
(405) 
(1,926) 
(5,820) 
Non-trading portfolios 
Value at risk of non-trading portfolios
Non-trading portfolios comprise of positions that primarily arise from 
the interest rate management of our retail and wholesale banking 
assets and liabilities, financial investments measured at fair value 
through other comprehensive income (‘FVOCI’) or at amortised cost, 
and certain exposures arising from our insurance operations. 
Value at risk (‘VaR’) of non-trading portfolios is a technique for 
estimating potential losses on risk positions as a result of movements 
in market rates and prices over a specified time horizon and to a 
given level of confidence. The use of VaR is integrated into the 
market risk management of non-trading portfolios to have a complete 
picture of risk, complementing risk sensitivity analysis.
From 1Q24, we adopted a methodology change to measure nontrading VaR over a 10-day holding period as opposed to 1 day in order 
to better reflect longer average time horizons in the management of 
non-trading portfolios compared with trading portfolios. 
Comparative data at 31 December 2023 has been restated on a 10day basis accordingly, using a scalar approach that results in restated 
numbers being approximately three times higher than previously 
reported 1-day basis numbers. 
Risk review
212
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Our models are predominantly based on historical simulation that 
incorporates the following features: 
–
historical market rates and prices, which are calculated with 
reference to interest rates, credit spreads and the associated 
volatilities;
–
potential market movements that are calculated with reference to 
data from the past two years; and
–
calculations to a 99% confidence level and using a 10-day holding 
period.
Although a valuable guide to risk, VaR is used for non-trading 
portfolios with awareness of its limitations. For example:
–
The use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future market 
moves may not encompass all potential market events, 
particularly those that are extreme in nature. As the model is 
calibrated on the last 500 business days, it does not adjust 
instantaneously to a change in market regime.
–
The use of a 10-day holding period for risk management purposes 
of non-trading books is only an indication of exposure and not 
indicative of the time period required to hedge or liquidate 
positions.
–
The use of a 99% confidence level by definition does not take into 
account losses that might occur beyond this level of confidence. 
Non-trading VaR includes non-trading financial instruments held in 
portfolios managed by Global Treasury. The management of interest 
rate risk in the banking book is described further in ‘Banking net 
interest income sensitivity’ on page 212.
The interest rate risk on the fixed-rate securities issued by HSBC 
Holdings is not included in the Group non-trading VaR. The 
management of this risk is described on page 215. Non-trading VaR 
also excludes the equity risk on securities held at fair value and nontrading book foreign exchange risk. 
The daily levels of total non-trading VaR in 2024 are set out in the graph below.
Weekly VaR (non-trading portfolios), 99% 10 day ($m)
 Non-trading total
 Interest rate
 Credit spread
 Diversification
Dec-23
Jan-24
Mar-24
Apr-24
May-24
Jun-24
Jul-24
Aug-24
Sep-24
Nov-24
Dec-24
-600
-400
-200
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
The Group non-trading VaR for 2024 is shown in the table below.
Interest rate
Credit spread
Portfolio diversification1
Total2
$m
$m
$m
$m
Balance at 31 Dec 2024
 
528.4 
246.1 
(220.7) 
553.8 
Average
 
603.7 
315.1 
(222.9) 
695.8 
Maximum
 
1,000.6 
369.1 
 
1,097.6 
Minimum
 
292.1 
242.4 
 
408.7 
Balance at 31 Dec 2023
 
549.6 
356.7 
(329.5) 
576.7 
Average
 
494.0 
266.1 
(201.6) 
558.6 
Maximum
 
638.6 
368.0 
— 
709.4 
Minimum
 
344.0 
174.5 
— 
401.5 
Non-trading VaR, 99% 10 day
(Audited)
1 Portfolio diversification is the market risk dispersion effect of holding a portfolio containing different risk types. It represents the reduction in unsystematic 
market risk that occurs when combining a number of different risk types – such as interest rate and credit spreads – together in one portfolio. It is measured as 
the difference between the sum of the VaR by individual risk type and the combined total VaR. A negative number represents the benefit of portfolio 
diversification. As the maximum and minimum occurs on different days for different risk types, it is not meaningful to calculate a portfolio diversification benefit 
for these measures.
2 The total VaR is non-additive across risk types due to diversification effects.
The VaR for non-trading activity decreased by $23m from $577m at 
31 December 2023 to $554m at 31 December 2024 due to the 2022 
inflation-driven stress period dropping out of our two-year historical 
scenario window, decreasing the volatility calibrated by the model 
during the second half of the year, largely offset by an increase in the 
duration risk of Global Treasury’s portfolios. Prior to this change in 
calibration, non-trading VaR peaked at $1,097m during May 2024, 
driven by an increase in the duration of Global Treasury’s portfolios, 
higher market yields and more volatile historical scenarios from 
March 2022. The average portfolio diversification effect between 
interest rate and credit spread exposure remained broadly stable. 
Non-trading VaR is managed and controlled through a limit approved 
by the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer for HSBC Holdings. 
The limit was rescaled higher to reflect the change in the basis of 
preparation detailed above.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
213
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Sensitivity of capital and reserves
Global Treasury maintains a portfolio of high-quality liquid assets for 
contingent liquidity and NII stabilisation purposes, which is in part 
accounted for under a hold-to-collect-and-sell business model. This 
hold-to-collect-and-sell portfolio, together with any associated 
derivatives in designated hedge accounting relationships, is 
accounted for at fair value through other comprehensive income and 
has an impact on CET1. The portfolio represents the vast majority of 
our hold-to-collect-and-sell capital risk and is risk managed with a 
variety of tools, including risk sensitivities and value at risk measures.
The table below measures the sensitivity of the value of this portfolio 
to an instantaneous 100 basis point increase in interest rates, based 
on the risk sensitivity of a shift in value for a 1 basis point (‘bps‘) 
parallel movement in interest rates.
Sensitivity of hold-to-collect-and-sell reserves to interest rate movements
$m
At 31 Dec 2024
+100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves
 
(3,433) 
As a percentage of total shareholders’ equity
(1.86)%
At 31 Dec 2023
+100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves
 
(2,264) 
As a percentage of total shareholders’ equity
(1.22)%
 
The increase in the sensitivity of the portfolio during 2024 was mainly 
driven by an increase in NII stabilisation hedging in line with our 
strategy. While this hedging has increased the capital sensitivity of 
the portfolio it has the effect of further dampening the volatility of our 
banking NII over time and through the cycle. The figures in the table 
above do not take into account the effects of interest rate convexity. 
The portfolio mostly comprises vanilla sovereign bonds in a variety of 
currencies and the primary risk is interest rate duration risk, although 
the portfolio also generates asset swap, credit spread and asset 
spread risks that are managed within appetite as part of our risk 
management framework. A minus 100bps shock would lead to an 
approximately symmetrical gain.
Alongside our monitoring of the hold-to-collect-and-sell reserve 
sensitivity, we also monitor the sensitivity of reported cash flow 
hedging reserves to interest rate movements on a yearly basis by 
assessing the expected reduction in valuation of cash flow hedges 
due to parallel movements of plus or minus 100bps in all yield curves.
The following table details the sensitivity of our cash flow hedging 
reserves to the stipulated movements in yield curves at the year end. 
The sensitivities are indicative and based on simplified scenarios. We 
apply flooring on negative rates in the minus 100bps scenario in this 
assessment. The effect of this flooring is immaterial at the end of 
2024.
The sensitivity of the cash flow hedging reserve increased compared 
with 31 December 2023. The increase was mainly driven by our NII 
stabilisation activity. Our exposure to fixed rate pound sterling hedges 
continued to be the largest in size and in terms of year-on-year 
increase. Hong Kong dollar and euro hedges contributed the majority 
of the rest of the increase in exposure.
Sensitivity of cash flow hedging reported reserves to interest rate movements
$m
At 31 Dec 2024
+100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves
 
(4,496) 
As a percentage of total shareholders’ equity
(2.43)%
-100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves
 
4,500 
As a percentage of total shareholders’ equity
2.43%
At 31 Dec 2023
+100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves
 
(3,436) 
As a percentage of total shareholders’ equity
(1.85)%
-100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves
 
3,474 
As a percentage of total shareholders’ equity
1.87%
Third-party assets in Markets Treasury 
Third-party assets in Markets Treasury increased by 2% compared 
with 31 December 2023. The net increase of $19bn is partly 
reflective of higher commercial surpluses during the year, with the 
increase of $69bn in ‘Financial Investments’ and the decrease of 
$17bn in ‘Cash and balances at central banks’ largely driven by NII 
stabilisation activity. Additionally, a decrease of $22bn in ‘Other’ is 
attributed to the disposal of HSBC Bank Canada assets previously 
classified as held for sale.
Third-party assets in Markets Treasury 
2024
2023
$m
$m
Cash and balances at central banks
 
261,284 
278,289 
Trading assets
 
163 
238 
Loans and advances:
– to banks
 
66,518 
78,667 
– to customers
 
743 
1,083 
Reverse repurchase agreements
 
47,812 
45,419 
Financial investments
 
465,123 
396,259 
Other
 
12,232 
34,651 
At 31 Dec
 
853,875 
834,606 
Risk review
214
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Defined benefit pension plans
Market risk arises within our defined benefit pension plans to the 
extent that the obligations of the plans are not fully matched by 
assets with determinable cash flows.
 For details of our defined benefit plans, including asset allocation, see Note 
5 on the financial statements, and for pension risk management, see page 
203.
Additional market risk measures 
applicable only to the parent 
company
HSBC Holdings monitors and manages foreign exchange risk and interest 
rate risk. In order to manage interest rate risk, HSBC Holdings uses the 
projected sensitivity of its NII to future changes in yield curves. 
Foreign exchange risk
HSBC Holdings’ foreign exchange exposures derive almost entirely 
from the execution of structural foreign exchange hedges on behalf 
of the Group. At 31 December 2024, HSBC Holdings had forward 
foreign exchange contracts of $33.9bn (2023: $33.8bn) to manage 
the Group’s structural foreign exchange exposures.
 For further details of our structural foreign exchange exposures, see page 
211.
Sensitivity of banking net interest income 
HSBC Holdings monitors banking NII sensitivity in the first, second 
and third years. Banking NII sensitivity includes the impact of AT1 
instruments as well as vanilla foreign exchange swaps to optimise 
cash management. For 2024, we have changed the HSBC Holdings 
disclosure from NII sensitivity to banking NII sensitivity to reflect our 
internal management of interest rate sensitivity, aligned to the Group 
approach (see page 212). Comparative data for the financial year 
ended 31 December 2023 have been re-presented accordingly. 
These sensitivities assume that any issuance where HSBC Holdings 
has an option to redeem at a future call date is called at that date. 
The tables below set out the effect on HSBC Holdings’ future 
banking NII of an immediate shock of +/-100bps to the current 
market-implied path of interest rates across all currencies on 31 
December 2024. 
The banking NII sensitivities shown are indicative and based on 
simplified scenarios. An immediate interest rate rise of 100bps would 
decrease projected banking NII for the 12 months to 31 December 
2025 by $156m. Conversely, an immediate fall of 100bps would 
increase projected banking NII for the 12 months to 31 December 2025 
by $156m.
Overall the banking NII sensitivity is mainly driven by interest rate 
sensitive liabilities funding equity (non-interest bearing) investments in 
subsidiaries.
Banking NII sensitivity to an instantaneous change in yield curves (12 months) – Year 1 sensitivity by currency
$
HK$
£
€
Other
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Change in Jan 2025 to Dec 2025 (based on balance sheet at 31 Dec 2024)
+100bps parallel
 
(194) 
— 
31 
7 
— 
(156) 
-100bps parallel
 
194 
— 
(31) 
(7) 
— 
156 
Change in Jan 2024 to Dec 2024 (based on balance sheet at 31 Dec 2023)
+100bps parallel
 
(228) 
— 
34 
8 
(1) 
(187) 
-100bps parallel
 
228 
— 
(34) 
(8) 
1 
187 
 
$
HK$
£
€
Other
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Change in banking NII (based on balance sheet at 31 Dec 2024)
Year 2 (Jan 2026 to Dec 2026)
 
182 
— 
(36) 
(24) 
— 
122 
Year 3 (Jan 2027 to Dec 2027)
 
192 
— 
(28) 
(27) 
— 
137 
Change in banking NII (based on balance sheet at 31 Dec 2023)
 
— 
Year 2 (Jan 2025 to Dec 2025)
 
194 
— 
(47) 
(8) 
(1) 
138 
Year 3 (Jan 2026 to Dec 2026)
 
194 
— 
(44) 
(29) 
(3) 
118 
Banking NII sensitivity to an instantaneous down 100bps parallel change in yield curves – Year 2 and Year 3 sensitivity by currency
The figures represent hypothetical movements in banking NII based 
on projected yield curve scenarios, HSBC Holdings’ current interest 
rate risk profile and assumed changes to that profile during the next 
three years. 
The sensitivities represent our assessment of the change to a 
hypothetical base case based on a static balance sheet assumption, 
and do not take into account the effect of actions that could be taken 
to mitigate this interest rate risk.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
215
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Market risk
Contents
216
Overview
216
Market risk management
217
Market risk in 2024
217
Trading portfolios 
218
Market risk balance sheet linkages
 
Overview
Market risk is the risk of an adverse financial impact on trading 
activities arising from changes in market parameters such as interest 
rates, foreign exchange rates, asset prices, volatilities, correlations 
and credit spreads. Market risk arises from both trading portfolios and 
non-trading portfolios.
Trading portfolios comprise positions held for client servicing and 
market-making, with the intention of short-term resale and/or to 
hedge risks resulting from such positions.
For further details of market risk in non-trading portfolios, see page 212 of 
the Annual Report and Accounts 2024.
Market risk management
Key developments in 2024
There were no material changes to our policies and practices for the 
management of market risk in 2024.
Governance and structure
The following diagram summarises the main business areas where 
trading market risks reside and the market risk measures used to 
monitor and limit exposures.
Risk types
Trading risk
– Foreign exchange and commodities
– Interest rates
– Credit spreads
– Equities
Global business
GBM
Risk measure
Value at risk | Sensitivity | Stress testing
The objective of our risk management policies and measurement 
techniques is to manage and control market risk exposures to 
optimise return on risk while maintaining a market profile consistent 
with our established risk appetite.
Market risk is managed and controlled through limits approved by the 
Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer. These limits are allocated 
across business lines and to the Group’s legal entities. Each major 
operating entity has an independent market risk management and 
control sub-function, which is responsible for measuring, monitoring 
and reporting market risk exposures against limits on a daily basis. 
Each operating entity is required to assess the market risks arising in 
its business and to transfer them either to its local Markets and 
Securities Services or Markets Treasury unit for management, or to 
separate books managed under the supervision of the local ALCO. 
The Traded Risk function enforces the controls around trading in 
permissible instruments approved for each site as well as changes 
that follow the approval of new products. Traded Risk also restricts 
trading in the more complex derivative products to only those offices 
with appropriate levels of product expertise and control systems.
Key risk management processes
Monitoring and limiting market risk 
exposures
Our objective is to manage and control market risk exposures while 
maintaining a market profile consistent with our risk appetite.
We use a range of tools to monitor and limit market risk exposures 
including sensitivity analysis, VaR and stress testing.
Sensitivity analysis
Sensitivity analysis measures the impact of movements in 
individual market factors on specific instruments or portfolios, 
including interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices. 
We use sensitivity measures to monitor the market risk positions 
within each risk type. Granular sensitivity limits are set for trading 
desks with consideration of market liquidity, customer demand and 
capital constraints, among other factors.
Value at risk
(Audited)
VaR is a technique for estimating potential losses on risk positions as 
a result of movements in market rates and prices over a specified 
time horizon and to a given level of confidence. The use of VaR is 
integrated into market risk management and calculated for all trading 
positions regardless of how we capitalise them. Where we do not 
calculate VaR explicitly, we use alternative tools as summarised in 
the ‘Stress testing’ section below.
Our models are predominantly based on historical simulation that 
incorporates the following features:
–
historical market rates and prices, which are calculated with 
reference to foreign exchange rates, commodity prices, interest 
rates, equity prices and the associated volatilities;
–
potential market movements that are calculated with reference to 
data from the past two years; and
–
calculations to a 99% confidence level and using a one-day holding 
period.
The models also incorporate the effect of option features on the 
underlying exposures. The nature of the VaR models means that an 
increase in observed market volatility will lead to an increase in VaR 
without any changes in the underlying positions.
VaR model limitations
Although a valuable guide to risk, VaR is used with awareness of its 
limitations. For example:
–
The use of historical data as a proxy for estimating future market 
moves may not encompass all potential market events, particularly 
those that are extreme in nature. As the model is calibrated on the 
last 500 business days, it does not adjust instantaneously to a 
change in the market regime.
–
The use of a one-day holding period for risk management 
purposes of trading books assumes that this short period is 
sufficient to hedge or liquidate all positions.
–
The use of a 99% confidence level by definition does not take into 
account losses that might occur beyond this level of confidence.
–
VaR is calculated on the basis of exposures outstanding at the close of 
business and therefore does not reflect intra-day exposures.
Risk review
216
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Risk not in VaR framework
The risks not in VaR (‘RNIV’) framework captures and capitalises material 
market risks that are not adequately covered in the VaR model.
Risk factors are reviewed on a regular basis and are either incorporated 
directly into the VaR models, where possible, or quantified through either 
the VaR-based RNIV approach or a stress test approach within the RNIV 
framework. While VaR-based RNIVs are calculated by using historical 
scenarios, stress-type RNIVs are estimated on the basis of stress 
scenarios whose severity is calibrated to be in line with the capital 
adequacy requirements. The outcome of the VaR-based RNIV approach 
is included in the overall VaR calculation but excluded from the VaR 
measure used for regulatory back-testing.
Stress-type RNIVs include a deal contingent derivatives capital charge 
to capture risk for these transactions and a de-peg risk measure to 
capture risk to pegged and heavily-managed currencies.
Stress testing
Stress testing is an important procedure that is integrated into our 
market risk management framework to evaluate the potential impact on 
portfolio values of more extreme, although plausible, events or 
movements in a set of financial variables. In such scenarios, losses can 
be much greater than those predicted by VaR modelling. Stress testing 
and reverse stress testing provide senior management with insights 
regarding the ‘tail risk’ beyond VaR.
Stress testing is implemented at legal entity, regional and overall Group 
levels. A set of scenarios is used consistently across all regions within 
the Group. Market risk stress testing incorporates both historical and 
hypothetical events. Market risk reverse stress tests are designed to 
identify vulnerabilities in our portfolios by looking for scenarios that lead 
to loss levels considered severe for the relevant portfolio. These 
scenarios may be local or idiosyncratic in nature and complement the 
systematic top-down stress testing. 
The risk appetite around potential stress losses for the Group is set 
and monitored against limits.
Back-testing
We routinely validate the accuracy of our VaR models by back-testing the 
VaR metric against both actual and hypothetical profit and loss. 
Hypothetical profit and loss excludes non-modelled items such as fees, 
commissions and revenue related to intra-day transactions. 
The hypothetical profit and loss reflects the profit and loss that would be 
realised if positions were held constant from the end of one trading day 
to the end of the next. This measure of profit and loss does not align 
with how risk is dynamically hedged, and is therefore not necessarily 
indicative of the actual performance of the business. 
The number of hypothetical loss back-testing exceptions, together with a 
number of other indicators, is used to assess model performance and to 
consider whether enhanced internal monitoring of a VaR model is 
required. We back-test our VaR at set levels of our Group entity hierarchy.
During 2024, the Group experienced one back-testing exception on 
losses against actual and hypothetical profit and losses, mainly driven 
by volatility in certain equity markets.
Market risk in 2024
The past year had a busy political agenda, with the November US 
election being the main event. Geopolitics remained prominent amid 
ongoing tensions in the Middle East and the Russia-Ukraine war. 
Major central banks began their easing cycles in 2024, with the US 
Federal Reserve cutting its policy rate by 1% since September, while 
the ECB and some other European central banks implemented rate 
cuts starting in June. In contrast, the Bank of Japan raised its 
overnight rate in March, ending a prolonged period of negative 
interest rates and ceasing yield curve control.
Throughout the year, government bond yields generally trended 
upward, except during the third quarter, largely driven by volatile 
inflation figures and shifting central bank expectations. In Europe, the 
yield spread between France and Germany widened amid 
uncertainties surrounding French fiscal policy following local 
legislative elections. Global equities reached multiple record highs in 
the US and Europe, buoyed by strong corporate earnings and positive 
sentiment in the technology sector. Global markets rebounded from a 
short period of volatility in August, triggered by the unwinding of carry 
trades due to rising Japanese government bond yields, US recession 
concerns, and equity market valuations. 
In foreign exchange markets, the trend of a strengthening US dollar 
continued against most developed and emerging market currencies. 
The euro approached parity with the US dollar, while the yen 
weakened to multi-decade lows. Credit markets performed positively 
throughout the year, with a more pronounced tightening of high-yield 
credit spreads compared with investment-grade spreads, despite a 
broad widening of spreads in August.
We continued to manage market risk prudently during 2024. 
Sensitivity exposures and VaR remained within appetite as the 
business pursued its core market-making activity in support of our 
customers. Market risk was managed using a complementary set of 
risk measures and limits, including stress testing and scenario 
analysis.
Trading portfolios
Value at risk of the trading portfolios
Trading VaR predominantly resides within the Markets and Securities 
Services business. As of 31 December 2024, Trading VaR stood at 
$38.3m, down from $52.8m as of 31 December 2023. At the end of 
December 2024, Trading VaR was mainly driven by exposures to 
interest rate risk factors from the Global Debt Markets and Global 
Foreign Exchange business lines to facilitate client-driven activity. 
Trading VaR peaked in March 2024 due to the sensitivity of the 
trading book to interest rates movements, coupled with relatively 
large interest rate shocks captured in the VaR scenario window. VaR 
reduced in the second half of 2024, mainly as a result of some 
volatile scenarios rolling off the VaR scenario window.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
217
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The daily levels of total trading VaR during 2024 are set out in the graph below.
Daily VaR (trading portfolios), 99% 1 day ($m)
 Trading total
Interest rate (‘IR’) trading
 Equity (‘EQ’) trading
Credit spread (‘CS’) trading intent
Foreign exchange (‘FX’) trading
 Diversification
Dec-23
Jan-24
Feb-24
Mar-24
Apr-24
May-24
Jun-24
Jul-24
Aug-24
Sep-24
Oct-24
Nov-24
Dec-24
-80
-60
-40
-20
0
20
40
60
80
100
The Group trading VaR for the year is shown in the table below.
Trading VaR, 99% 1 day1
(Audited)
Foreign
exchange and 
commodity
Interest
rate
Equity
Credit
spread
Portfolio 
diversification2
Total3
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Balance at 31 Dec 2024
 
14.6 
34.9 
16.3 
8.2 
(35.7) 
38.3 
Average
 
15.2 
48.3 
14.8 
9.9 
(35.1) 
53.1 
Maximum
 
29.8 
78.1 
20.5 
13.1 
 
83.3 
Minimum
 
6.9 
24.8 
12.7 
6.6 
 
37.0 
Balance at 31 Dec 2023
 
13.4 
55.9 
15.2 
7.2 
(38.9) 
52.8 
Average
 
16.2 
53.9 
19.0 
11.6 
(40.8) 
59.8 
Maximum
 
24.6 
86.0 
27.8 
16.5 
 
98.2 
Minimum
 
9.3 
25.5 
13.4 
6.6 
 
34.4 
1 Trading portfolios comprise positions arising from the market-making and warehousing of customer-derived positions.
2 Portfolio diversification is the market risk dispersion effect of holding a portfolio containing different risk types. It represents the reduction in unsystematic 
market risk that occurs when combining a number of different risk types – such as interest rate, equity and foreign exchange – together in one portfolio. It is 
measured as the difference between the sum of the VaR by individual risk type and the combined total VaR. A negative number represents the benefit of 
portfolio diversification. As the maximum and minimum occurs on different days for different risk types, it is not meaningful to calculate a portfolio diversification 
benefit for these measures.
3 The total VaR is non-additive across risk types due to diversification effects.
The table below shows trading VaR at a 99% confidence level compared with trading VaR at a 95% confidence level at 31 December 2024. 
This comparison facilitates the benchmarking of the trading VaR, which can be stated at different confidence levels, with financial institution 
peers. The 95% VaR is unaudited. 
Comparison of trading VaR, 99% 1 day vs trading VaR, 95% 1 day
Trading VaR, 99% 1 day Trading VaR, 95% 1 day
$m
$m
Balance at 31 Dec 2024
 
38.3 
23.4 
Average
 
53.1 
33.0 
Maximum
 
83.3 
48.9 
Minimum
 
37.0 
22.0 
Balance at 31 Dec 2023
 
52.8 
35.3 
Average
 
59.8 
36.8 
Maximum
 
98.2 
53.3 
Minimum
 
34.4 
21.0 
Market risk balance sheet linkages
The following balance sheet lines in the Group’s consolidated position 
are subject to market risk:
Trading assets and liabilities
The Group’s trading assets and liabilities are in almost all cases 
originated by GBM. Other than a limited number of exceptions, these 
assets and liabilities are treated as traded risk for the purposes of 
market risk management. The exceptions primarily arise in Global 
Banking where the short-term acquisition and disposal of assets are 
linked to other non-trading-related activities such as loan origination.
Risk review
218
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Derivative assets and liabilities
We undertake derivative activity for three primary purposes: to create 
risk management solutions for clients, to manage the portfolio risks 
arising from client business, and to manage and hedge our own risks. 
Most of our derivative exposures arise from sales and trading 
activities within GBM. The assets and liabilities included in trading 
VaR give rise to a large proportion of the income included in net 
income from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a 
fair value basis. Adjustments to trading income such as valuation 
adjustments are not measured by the trading VaR model.
For information on the accounting policies applied to financial instruments 
at fair value, see Note 1.2 on the financial statements.
Climate risk TCFD
Contents
219
Overview
220
Climate risk management
221
Embedding our climate risk approach
223
Insights from climate scenario analysis
Overview
Our climate risk approach identifies two primary drivers of climate 
risk:
–
physical risk, which arises from the increased frequency and 
severity of extreme weather events, such as hurricanes and 
floods, or chronic gradual shifts in weather patterns or rises in the 
sea level; and
–
transition risk, which arises from the process of moving to a net 
zero economy, including changes in government policy and 
legislation, technology, market demand, and reputational 
implications triggered by a change in stakeholder expectations, 
action or inaction. 
In addition, we have also identified the following thematic issues 
related to climate risk, which are most likely to materialise in the form 
of reputational, regulatory compliance and litigation risks:
–
net zero alignment risk, which arises from the risk of HSBC failing 
to meet its net zero ambition or failing to meet external 
expectations related to net zero; and
–
the risk of greenwashing, which arises from the act of knowingly 
or unknowingly making inaccurate, unclear, misleading or 
unsubstantiated claims regarding sustainability to our 
stakeholders. 
Approach 
We recognise that the physical impacts of climate change and the 
transition to a net zero economy can create significant financial risks 
for companies, investors and the financial system. HSBC may be 
affected by climate risks either directly or indirectly through our 
relationships with customers, which could result in both financial and 
non-financial impacts.
Our climate risk approach aims to effectively manage the material 
climate risks that could impact our operations, financial performance 
and stability, and reputation. It is informed by the evolving 
expectations of our regulators.
We continue to develop our approach and climate risk capabilities 
across our businesses, by prioritising sectors, portfolios and 
counterparties with the highest impacts, and recognise that this is a 
long-term iterative process. This includes increasing coverage and 
incorporating more mature data, climate analytics, frameworks and 
tools, and responding to emerging industry best practice and climaterelated regulations.
This also necessitates reflecting on how climate risk continues to 
evolve in the real world, and improving how we embed climate risk 
factors into strategic planning, transactions and decision making 
across our businesses. For example, our mergers and acquisitions 
process considers potential climate and sustainability-related targets, 
net zero transition plans and climate strategy, and how this relates to 
HSBC.
Our climate risk approach is aligned to our Group-wide risk 
management framework and three lines of defence model, which 
sets out how we identify, assess and manage our risks. For further 
details of the three lines of defence framework, see page 129.
The tables below provide an overview of the climate risk drivers and thematic issues considered within HSBC’s climate risk approach. 
Climate risk – risk drivers
Details
Potential impacts
Time horizons
Physical
Acute
Increased frequency and severity of weather events causing 
disruption to business operations.
– Decreased real estate 
values or stranded assets.
– Decreased household 
income and wealth.
– Increased costs of legal 
and compliance.
– Increased public scrutiny.
– Decreased profitability.
– Lower asset performance.
Short term
Medium term
Long term
Chronic
Longer-term shifts in climate patterns (e.g. sustained higher 
temperatures, sea level rise, shifting monsoons or chronic heat 
waves).
Transition
Policy and legal
Mandates on, and regulation of products and services and/or 
policy support for low-carbon alternatives. Litigation from parties 
who have suffered loss and damage from climate impacts.
Technology
Replacement of existing products with lower emissions options.
End-demand (market) Changing consumer demand from individuals and corporates.
Reputational
Increased scrutiny following a change in stakeholder perceptions 
of climate-related action or inaction.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
219
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Climate risk – thematic issues
Net zero 
alignment risk
Net zero ambition 
risk
Failing to set or adapt our net zero ambition and broader business strategy in alignment with key stakeholder 
expectations, latest scientific understanding and commercial objectives.
Net zero 
execution risk
Failing to meet our net zero ambition due to taking insufficient or ineffective actions, or due to the actions of clients, 
suppliers and other stakeholders or due to other external factors.
Net zero reporting 
risk
Failing to report emissions baselines and targets, and performance against these accurately due to data, methodology 
and model limitations.
Risk of 
greenwashing
Firm
Making inaccurate, unclear, misleading or unsubstantiated claims in relation to our sustainability commitments and 
targets, as well as the reporting of our performance towards them.
Product
Making inaccurate, unclear, misleading or unsubstantiated claims in relation to products or services offered to clients 
that have stated sustainability objectives, characteristics, impacts or features.
Client
Making inaccurate, unclear, misleading or unsubstantiated claims as a consequence of our relationships with clients or 
transactions we undertake with them, where their sustainability commitments or related performance are 
misrepresented or are not aligned to our own commitments.
Our annual climate risk materiality assessment helps us to 
understand how climate risk may impact HSBC’s risk taxonomy. 
The assessment considers short-term (up to 2026), medium-term 
(2027-2035) and long-term (2036-2050) periods. The table below 
provides a summary of how climate risk may impact a subset of 
HSBC’s principal risks.
In addition to this assessment, we also consider climate risk in our 
emerging risk reporting and scenario analysis (for further details, see 
‘Top and emerging risks’ on page 39).
Climate risk drivers
Credit risk
Traded risk
Reputational risk1
Regulatory 
compliance risk1
Resilience risk
Other financial 
and nonfinancial risk 
types
Physical risk
u
u
u
u
Transition risk
u
u
u
u
u
u
1 Our climate risk approach identifies thematic issues such as net zero alignment risk and the risk of greenwashing, which are most likely to materialise in the 
form of reputational, regulatory compliance and litigation risks.
Climate risk management
Key developments in 2024
Our climate risk programme continues to support the development of 
our climate risk management capabilities. The following outlines key 
developments in 2024:
–
We have started to enhance our approach to managing net zero 
alignment risk in our wholesale portfolio, through developing 
portfolio steering capabilities and revenue assessments. 
–
We enhanced our approach to assessing the impact of climate 
change on capital, focusing on credit, market and operational risk.
–
We enhanced our internal climate scenario analysis, including 
through improvements to input data and models (e.g. for the 
power and utilities sector). For further details of scenario analysis, 
see page 223.
–
We enhanced our approach to managing and mitigating the risk of 
greenwashing.
–
We developed climate risk guidelines for relationship managers to 
further embed climate risk considerations into credit risk 
assessments.
While we have made progress, further work remains, including the 
need to develop additional metrics and tools to measure our 
exposure to climate-related risks.
Governance and structure
The Board takes overall supervisory responsibility for our ESG 
strategy, overseeing executive management in developing the 
approach, execution and associated reporting. 
The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer is the senior manager 
responsible for the management of climate risk under the UK Senior 
Managers Regime, holding overall accountability for the Group’s 
climate risk programme.
The Sustainability Working Group, established in 4Q24, oversees and 
provides guidance on the Group-wide medium and longer-term 
sustainability strategy.
The ESG Committee has oversight of ESG strategy, policy, material 
commitments and external disclosure. It is co-chaired by the Group 
CEO and the Group Chief Sustainability Officer. 
The Group Reputational Risk Committee provides recommendations 
and advice on significant reputational risk matters with impacts 
across the Group. 
The Environmental Risk Steering Meeting (formerly the 
Environmental Risk Oversight Forum) provides oversight of 
environmental risk and the risk of greenwashing. Equivalent forums 
have been established at a regional level.
The Group Risk Management Meeting and the Group Risk 
Committee receive regular updates on our climate risk profile and the 
progress of our climate risk programme.
For further details of the Group’s ESG governance structure, see page 74.
Risk appetite
Our climate risk appetite forms part of the Group’s risk appetite 
statement and supports the business in delivering our net zero 
ambition effectively and sustainably.
Our climate risk appetite statement is approved and overseen by the 
Board. Climate risk indicators are reported on a quarterly basis for 
oversight by the Group Risk Management Meeting and the Group Risk 
Committee.
Policies, processes and controls
We continue to integrate climate risk into policies, processes and 
controls across many areas of our organisation, and we will continue 
to update these as our climate risk management capabilities mature 
over time. 
 For further details of how we manage climate risk across our global 
businesses, see page 60.
Risk review
220
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Embedding our climate risk approach
The table below provides further details of how we have embedded the management of climate risk across key risk types. For further details of 
our internal scenario analysis, see ‘Insights from climate scenario analysis’ on page 223.
Wholesale 
credit risk
We have metrics in place to monitor the exposure of our wholesale corporate lending portfolio to six high transition risk sectors, as shown in the 
below table. As at 31 December 2024, the overall exposure to the six high transition risk sectors was 18% of total gross carrying amount of 
wholesale loans and advances. These disclosures cover the whole of the value chain of the sector. The sector classifications are based on 
internal HSBC definitions and can be judgemental in nature. We use publicly available data as well as internal data to determine the appropriate 
sector. The classification of our clients into sectors is performed with inputs from subject matter experts. The sector classifications are subject 
to the remediation of ongoing data quality challenges and continuous improvement of our ongoing processes. The data will continue to be 
enhanced and refined in future years.
Our relationship managers engage with our key wholesale customers, including those in higher transition risk sectors, through a transition 
engagement questionnaire (‘TEQ’). In 2024, the TEQ was expanded to cover all geographies. The TEQ helps to gather information and assess 
our wholesale customers’ business model alignment to a net zero transition and their exposure to physical and transition risks. We use the 
responses to the questionnaire to risk-assess our key wholesale customers.
Our credit policies require that relationship managers comment on climate risk factors in credit applications for new money requests and annual 
credit reviews. Our credit policies also require manual credit risk rating overrides if climate is deemed to have a material impact on credit risk 
under 12 months if not already captured under the original credit risk rating.
Key developments to our framework in 2024 included the expansion of the TEQ, as set out above, and additionally the development of climate 
risk guidelines for relationship managers to further embed climate risk considerations into credit risk assessments.
Key challenges for further embedding climate risk into credit risk management relate to the availability of adequate physical risk data to assess 
impacts on our wholesale customers.
Wholesale loan exposure to high transition risk sectors at 31 December 2024
Units Automotive
Chemicals
Construction, 
Contracting & 
Building 
Materials5
Metals 
and 
mining
Oil 
and 
gas
Power 
and 
utilities
Total 
2024
Wholesale loan exposure as a proportion of 
total wholesale loans and advances1,2,3,4
% 
4 
2
3
2
3
4
18
1 Percentages shown in the table also include green and other sustainable finance loans, which support the transition to the net zero economy. 
The methodology for quantifying our exposure to high transition risk sectors and the transition risk metrics will evolve over time as more data 
becomes available and is incorporated in our risk management systems and processes. We are aiming to develop the appropriate systems, 
data and processes to provide enhanced disclosures in future years.
2 Counterparties are allocated to the high transition risk sectors via a two-step approach. Firstly, where the main business of a group of 
connected counterparties is in a high transition risk sector, all lending to the group is included in one high transition risk sector irrespective of 
the sector of each individual obligor within the group. Secondly, where the main business of a group of connected counterparties is not in a 
high transition risk sector, only lending to individual obligors in the high transition risk sectors is included. The main business of a group of 
connected counterparties is identified by the industry that generates the majority of revenue within a group. Customer revenue data utilised 
during this allocation process is the most recent readily available and will not always align to our own reporting period.
3 The six high transition risk sectors make up 18% of total gross carrying amount of wholesale loans and advances to banks and customers of 
$596bn. Amounts include assets held for sale.
4 The sectors used to monitor the wholesale corporate lending portfolio set out in the table are different to the scope of sectors we focus on for 
financed emissions targets and reporting. The latter focus on the most carbon-emissive sectors, and the parts of the value chain where we 
believe the majority of emissions are produced to help reduce double counting. These sectors are set out within 'Financed emissions' section 
on page 48.
5 Construction, Contracting & Building Materials has been renamed from Construction & Building Materials. The name has been revised to 
clarify that parties who build assets for end clients, investors and landowners, which should be included in this sector for their associated 
construction risks.
Retail credit 
risk
Climate risk may impact retail credit risk through an increase in credit losses on our global retail mortgage portfolio, primarily due to the impact of 
physical risk. Our current climate assessment, in line with last year’s assessment, indicates that our retail mortgage portfolio remains resilient to 
climate risk, with impact severity muted at a portfolio level given that our book has diversified property locations, with insurance coverage being 
a key loan covenant. Our retail credit risk mortgage policy requires that every mortgage market conducts an annual review of their climate risk 
management framework, to ensure they remain fit for purpose. Within our mortgage portfolios, properties or areas with potentially heightened 
physical risk are identified and assessed locally with exposure monitored using risk indicators. A reduction in property value, higher insurance 
costs and insurance availability are potential future negative financial impacts for properties with higher physical risk.
UK retail mortgage book
The UK is our largest mortgage market, and as of November 2024, made up 46.7% of our global mortgage portfolio. Our ESG Data Pack 
includes our climate risk exposures for this portfolio across regions. The maturity profile of the UK mortgage book shows that the average 
remaining contractual term in the UK is 21.8 years. However, with some customers undertaking refinancing options during this term, the 
average term of the mortgage can be reduced to between five and eight years. This means our strategic approach to climate risk considers both 
present day risk and long-term forward-looking risk, given that customers may choose to remain with us over the lifespan of the loan. Please see 
the result of our climate scenario analysis on page 226.
Physical risk
For the UK mortgage book, flood data is sourced from a third-party data provider, and considers the UK only, covering present day risk from tidal, 
river and surface water/flash flooding baselined to 2021. A flood risk rating score of 0-100 is provided with 100 being highest risk. Flood risk 
scores are based on the average annual loss generated using flood hazard frequency, flood depths and based on the probability of flooding 
events occurring. For the UK mortgage book, flood data is available for 93.7% of the mortgage book of which 0.9% is at a very high risk of 
flooding, with 2.7% of the book at a high risk of flooding. Geographically, by lending balances, our highest risk exposures are the Greater London 
and South-East regions. During 2024 we changed our flood risk classification of very high risk to align to the provider’s flood score bands. The 
postcode data used in the regional flood table has also been refined to incorporate a more granular approach. This has helped to aid the regional 
allocation and as a result the 2023 data has been restated to reflect this.
Risk type
Our approach
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
221
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Retail credit 
risk 
(continued)
Transition risk
We monitor the energy performance certificate (‘EPC’) ratings of individual properties from A (highest efficiency) through to G (least efficient) as 
EPCs are commonly used as an indicator of transition risk in the UK mortgage book. All UK rental properties must have a minimum EPC rating of 
E. It is broadly expected that the rental market will need to transition all rented properties to an EPC rating of C by 2030. We track EPC ratings 
for both owner occupied (‘OO’) and buy to let (‘BTL’), which are 96.6% of the portfolio and 3.4% of the portfolio by lending value, respectively. 
The EPC profile is broadly improving (to higher bands) but is evolving slowly, and the pace is dependent on regulation. Where we do not hold a 
current EPC, we have included expired EPCs for 2024. EPCs are a reliable proxy as energy efficiency ratings gradually improve over time.
UK residential mortgages tenor (remaining mortgage term by balance ($m)) as at 31 December 20241
Tenor 
Remaining mortgage balance 
($m)
<1 year
 
357 
1 to 5 years 
 
3,589 
>5 years 
 
159,452 
Weighted average of remaining mortgage term (years)
21.8
There has been an increase observed across the market in the number of people seeking new mortgages of up to 35 years or more due to rising house 
prices, higher interest rates and cost of living challenges although the average life of an HSBC mortgage loan is approximately between five and eight 
years due to refinancing. Despite this, our strategic approach to climate risk considers present day and long-term risk given customers may remain on 
our book for the whole loan term.
 For further details of flood risk and the EPC breakdown of our UK retail mortgage portfolio, see our ESG Data Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg.
1 The table includes instances where individual properties have multiple associated accounts and mortgage balances. These are aggregated to a 
property level and the longest term remaining is taken as the tenor. UK mortgage balances presented here are not directly reconcilable to 
other tables in the document due to differences in the basis of preparation.
Treasury 
risk
Climate risk may impact Treasury risk through increased regulatory requirements and from changes to customer behaviours, which may result in 
increased deposit outflows.
As part of our ICAAP, we assess the impact of climate change on capital, focusing on credit risk, market risk and operational risk and perform 
sensitivity analysis on our Internal Capital Planning Buffer.
As part of our ILAAP, we assess how climate risk could impact the Group liquidity position. As part of our Internal Climate Scenario Analysis 
(‘ICSA’), we have developed an exploratory scenario to understand the impact of a potential greenwashing event on our deposits. For further 
details, please see page 224.
In October 2024 we published our Green Financing Framework, in alignment with the International Capital Market Association Green Bond 
Principles. This framework promotes transparency, forming part of our sustainability strategy and helping to further our aim of supporting our 
clients in transitioning to a net zero future.
Pension risk
Climate risk could result in additional costs within our defined benefit pension plans, due to changes in the pension plans’ investment 
performance or through having to meet evolving regulatory requirements. 
Our global policies on the oversight of pension investments explicitly reflect climate considerations. Training has been provided to local 
management on how to consider ESG risks in pension investments. We also conduct an annual exercise to estimate the exposure of our largest 
pension plans to climate risk.
Insurance risk
Climate risk could result in losses on our insurance assets due to changes in macroeconomic parameters.
We develop an annual plan to support the management of climate risk. This plan includes enhancing our stress test modelling capabilities to 
assess the solvency resilience of our insurance entities under prescribed climate scenarios.
Traded risk
Climate risk may result in trading losses due to increases in market volatility and widening spreads from the macro and microeconomic impacts 
of transition and physical risk.
We have implemented climate risk limits in global and regional trading mandates to monitor exposure to climate-sensitive sectors and countries 
across different asset classes in the Markets and Securities Services (‘MSS‘) business.
Our market risk policies include specific climate risk control requirements, which ensure that our climate risk limits and utilisations are monitored 
in the same way as market and traded credit risk exposures.
We conduct monthly stress testing to understand the vulnerabilities of our trading portfolio to various climate scenarios, which are refined on an 
annual basis, with the results reported to global and regional senior management.
Reputational 
risk
We manage the reputational impact of climate risk through our broader reputational risk framework, supported by our sustainability risk policies 
and metrics.
Our sustainability risk policies form part of our broader risk management framework and are important mechanisms for managing risks, including 
delivering our net zero ambition. Our thermal coal phase-out and energy policies aim to drive down greenhouse gas emissions while supporting 
a just transition.
Our global network of sustainability risk managers provides local policy guidance to relationship managers for the oversight of policy compliance, 
and in support of implementation across our wholesale banking activities. For further details of our sustainability risk policies, see page 61. 
We have developed risk appetite metrics to monitor our performance against our financed emissions targets. For further details of our targets, 
see page 52.
Regulatory 
compliance 
risk
Regulatory Compliance is responsible for the oversight and management of climate-related risks that could cause breaches of our regulatory 
duties to customers and inappropriate market conduct. We have updated our policies to incorporate considerations for ESG and climate risks, 
particularly in relation to new and ongoing product management, sales outcomes, and product marketing. 
To support our key policies, we have also enhanced the underlying control frameworks and processes. This includes the integration of 
greenwashing risk and controls considerations in the design of new products and changes to them, as well as in relation to marketing materials. 
From a product sales perspective, we have established key control principles, encompassing the sales journey design, training and competence, 
supervision, sales quality, and governance.
We operate an ESG and climate risk working group tasked with tracking and monitoring the integration of ESG and climate risk stewardship 
across our operations. This group also monitors regulatory and legislative developments related to the ESG and climate agenda.
Risk type
Our approach
Risk review
222
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Resilience 
risk
Resilience risks may potentially crystallise through physical climate risk impacts to our buildings supporting service provision, or through physical 
and/or transition disruption to our third-party supply chain relationships. 
We have developed metrics to assess how physical risk may impact our critical properties and to monitor progress against our own operations’ 
net zero ambitions. 
Our resilience risk policies are subject to continuous improvement to remain relevant to evolving climate risks. 
Model risk
Model risk in the ESG context refers to the uncertainties and complexities inherent in the modelling of the financial impact translation of climaterelated changes and scenarios. 
Climate risk models are used for climate scenario analysis, risk management, and emissions reporting among other use cases. Climate risk 
modelling is at a nascent stage, with challenges – including limitations in data availability, consistency and quality – shared across the industry. 
We have developed model risk procedures that set out the minimum control requirements for identifying, measuring and managing model risk 
for climate-related models. All the identified climate-related models are subject to HSBC’s model lifecycle controls and policy.
Financial 
reporting 
risk
Climate risk impacts financial reporting risk through increased reporting requirements.
The scope of financial reporting risk includes oversight of the accuracy and completeness of ESG and climate reporting. Our risk appetite 
statement states that HSBC has no appetite for material errors in ESG disclosures in our key markets, balanced with the evolving requirements 
and data availability. 
In addition, our internal controls incorporate requirements for addressing the risk of misstatement in ESG and climate reporting. To support this, 
a framework is used to provide guidance on control implementation over ESG and climate reporting and disclosures, which includes areas such 
as process and data governance, and risk assessment. 
Risk type
Our approach
Challenges
Key challenges include:
–
the diverse range of internal and external data sources and data 
structures needed for climate-related reporting, which introduces 
data accuracy and reliability risks;
–
data limitations on customer assets and supply chains, and 
methodology gaps, which hinder our ability to assess physical 
risks accurately;
–
industry-wide data gaps on customer emissions and transition plan 
and methodology gaps, which limit our ability to assess transition 
risks accurately; and
–
limitations in our management of net zero alignment risk due to 
known and unknown factors, including the limited accuracy and 
reliability of data, emerging methodologies, and the need to 
develop new tools to better inform decision making.
Insights from climate scenario analysis
Climate scenario analysis supports our strategy by assessing our 
potential exposures to risks and vulnerabilities under a range of 
climate scenarios. It is one of the key tools used to support the 
evaluation of portfolios in line with our net zero ambition. 
The scenarios developed for climate scenario analysis are designed to 
examine HSBC’s financial performance and capital resilience across a 
wide range of potential climate outcomes. They are sufficiently 
diverse to enable HSBC’s key physical and transition risk 
vulnerabilities to be explored. For further details about these risks, 
see ‘Overview under Climate risk’ on page 219.
The analysis supports our approach to supporting our clients in the 
transition to net zero through assessing, where available, client level 
financial and credit risk metrics, and identifying where further analysis 
and climate risk focus is required.
From a risk management perspective, it enhances our understanding 
of the various transition and global warming pathways that may 
unfold and their plausibility, and informs how we manage implications 
to credit risk and revenues. 
To meet our global regulatory needs, we produced several climate 
stress tests for regulators around the world, including the Hong Kong 
Monetary Authority (‘HKMA’). We continue to enhance our climate 
scenario analysis exercises so that we can have a more 
comprehensive understanding of climate headwinds, risks and 
opportunities to support our strategic planning, actions and risk 
management.
Use of climate scenario outputs to 
support how we assess our climate 
resilience
As we navigate the transition to net zero, climate scenario analysis is 
used to support core banking processes such as client-facing 
activities, finance activities and risk management. 
From a financial and capital planning perspective, we use climate 
scenario analysis to support the Group’s internal capital adequacy 
assessment process (‘ICAAP’) to understand the amount of capital 
the Group should hold to meet identified climate risks, including 
integration of climate impacts into the Group’s internal stress testing 
exercises. In addition, it informs strategic planning by providing 
insights on the size and timing of financial impacts, and IFRS 9 loss 
provisioning to ensure climate risks are adequately provisioned for in 
our balance sheet, such as expected credit losses (‘ECL’).
Climate scenario analysis also supports portfolio steering frameworks 
set up to help shape our Global Businesses strategy to meet net zero 
ambitions. Portfolio steering has been developed to enable the Group 
to manage sector portfolios in line with its net zero by 2050 ambition, 
while managing risks and capturing commercial opportunities. This 
enables HSBC to manage financed emissions within our appetite at 
portfolio level.
Climate scenario analysis supports the Group to assess the impact of 
our net zero ambitions on our revenue and profitability to help 
strengthen our understanding of business model risk, and supports 
building the organisation’s awareness of climate change risk, 
informing our climate risk appetite. 
Our climate scenarios
Our 2024 scenarios considered the key regions in which we operate 
and were designed to assess the impact on our balance sheet across 
three distinct periods: short term up to 2026; medium term from 
2027 to 2035; and long term from 2036 to 2050. 
Building on prior years, the 2024 climate scenario analysis exercise 
benefited from new scenarios, including: the introduction of a new 
Below 2 Degrees scenario that is aligned with the Paris Agreement 
goal of limiting global warming to below 2 degrees by the end of the 
century; and a bespoke near-term Severe Climate Stress scenario; 
and from updated climate scenario assumptions, which include 
increased sector and geographical granularity for all scenarios. 
The 2024 climate scenarios range from a combination of highest 
physical risk to highest transition risk as follows:
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
223
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

–
Downside Physical Risk scenario: with significant global warming 
and physical risk events, assumes climate action is limited to 
currently implemented governmental policies, new 
decarbonisation policies fail to get introduced and global warming 
continues.
–
Severe Climate Stress scenario: a near term disorderly climate 
action, triggered by unprecedented global weather events that 
lead to a short, sharp economic recession. In this scenario, 
extreme physical events pivot the public view on climate and the 
transition to net zero accelerates. This extreme stress scenario is 
used to test HSBC’s capital resilience to extreme and very unlikely 
events, combining downside climate and macroeconomic risks 
with a horizon ending in 2030. 
–
Current Commitments scenario: assumes a slower-than-required 
transition to a net zero economy, reflective of the current pace of 
transition, which assumes that climate action is limited to current 
governmental committed policies, including already implemented 
actions. This scenario helps us determine the actions we need to 
take to reach our net zero ambition while operating in a world that 
is not on a net zero by 2050 pathway. 
–
Below 2 Degrees scenario: a Paris Agreement-aligned scenario 
where net zero is achieved, but beyond the 2050 scenario horizon, 
as it assumes an orderly and gradual rise in the stringency of 
climate policies over time.
–
Delayed Transition Risk scenario: in which action is delayed until 
2030 but is then stringent and rapid enough to meet net zero by 
2050, accentuating disorderly transition risks.
We have chosen these scenarios to provide a holistic view that 
supplements the Group’s current and future strategic thinking. The 
2024 climate scenarios are underpinned by well-established industry 
bodies such as the Network for Greening Finance Phase IV, the 
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (‘IPCC’) and International 
Energy Agency (‘IEA’), which are further enriched for additional 
granularity, ensuring consistency with industry-recognised work and 
reflecting the latest climate policy and economic outlook. 
Characteristics of our scenarios
Scenarios
Downside 
Physical Risk
Severe Climate 
Stress
Current 
Commitments
Below 2 Degrees
Delayed 
Transition Risk
Scenario 
outcomes
Rise in global 
temperatures by 2100 (vs 
pre-industrial levels)
4.2°C
N/A
2.4˚c
1.7˚c
1.6˚c
End of horizon
2050
2030
2050
2050
2050
Underlying 
assumptions 
based on 
global 
averages
Global climate actions
Implemented 
policies only
Rapid & disorderly 
transition
All currently pledged 
policies
Gradually rising 
stringency of policies
Rapid & disorderly 
transition
Assumed pace of 
technology change and 
adoption
Slow change
Accelerated progress
Limited progress
Moderate change
Accelerates from 
2030
Assumed socioeconomic 
impact
Very high
Very high
Moderate
High
Very high
Assumed carbon price 
($/tCO2)
2030
2050
2030
2030
2050
2030
2050
2030
2050
9
8
326
30
78
46
136
30
558
Scenario risk 
characteristics
Climate 
risk
Physical
p
Higher
p
Higher
u
Moderate
q
Lower
q
Lower
Transition
q
Lower
p
Higher
u
Moderate
p
Higher
p
Higher
Group outputs and our methodology
Climate scenario analysis allows us to model how different potential 
climate pathways may impact the resilience of our customers and our 
portfolios.
Our models continue to incorporate a range of climate-specific 
metrics that could potentially impact our customers, including 
expected production volumes, revenue, costs and capital 
expenditure.
We assess how these metrics interplay with economic factors, such 
as carbon prices, which represent the cost effects of climate-related 
policies that aim to discourage carbon-emitting activities and 
encourage low-carbon solutions. The expected result of higher carbon 
prices is a reduction in emissions as high-emission activities become 
uneconomical.
We analyse how climate risks impact principal risk types within our 
organisation, including credit and traded risks, non-financial risks and 
pension risk. While the following sections focus primarily on credit 
risk, we also set out how we continue to enhance and embed 
impacts from traded risk, pension risk and non-financial risks. 
For our wholesale lending portfolio, the scope of our 2024 analysis 
prioritised high-emitting sectors, and we focused on delving deeper 
into a selection of high transition risk sectors. We have enhanced our 
climate models for the power and utilities and automotive sectors, 
while regional deep dives focused on select high risk and material 
sectors. The financial metrics used in our models included credit 
rating and client cashflow impacts to derive ECLs and risk-weighted 
assets (‘RWAs’), emissions and balance sheet impacts. 
For our retail mortgage portfolio, our analysis focused on key regions 
and physical risk factors, including property locations, perils and 
insurance coverage. 
The internal climate scenario analysis exercise showed that losses 
are influenced by their exposure to a variety of climate risks under 
different climate scenarios.
When assessing our long-term scenarios, climate-related losses are 
expected to remain minimal in the short term and likely to increase in 
the medium and longer time horizon, driven by the transition to a net 
zero economy and greater physical risk impacts.
Under the defined climate scenarios, transition risk impacts are 
predominantly driven by credit risk losses and are expected to create 
a drag on the Group’s profitability across all scenarios. In the Below 2 
Degrees scenario, we expect to see an increase in projected credit 
losses that materialise in the medium term if early action to transition 
to net zero is taken. Credit losses are projected to increase in the 
medium to long term if the transition to net zero is delayed, which 
was underlined within the Delayed Transition scenario, where climate 
action begins later and is therefore expected to be more rapid and 
disruptive for our customers who will have less time to restructure 
their business models and reduce their carbon emissions.
The risks and opportunities will need to be carefully balanced, and by 
building a more climate-resilient balance sheet, we can reduce 
impairment risks and improve longer-term stability.
Increased lending opportunities exist during an accelerated transition 
period such as those expected in the Below 2 Degrees, Delayed 
Risk review
224
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
 +Physical Risk Transition Risk+

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Transition Risk and Severe Climate Stress scenarios, noting that 
these scenarios also experience the risk of heightened impairments 
in the latter stages of their time horizons. 
Modelling limitations
We continue to look for ways of enhancing our methodology to 
improve the effectiveness of our climate scenario analysis by 
incorporating lessons learnt from previous exercises and feedback 
from key stakeholders, including regulators. There are industry-wide 
limitations, particularly on data availability, although our models are 
designed to produce outputs that can support our assessment of the 
level of our climate resilience.
Climate scenario analysis requires considerable amounts of data and 
we are continuing to enhance coverage of our exposures. Where data 
is only available for a subset of our counterparties, we extrapolate the 
results observed where available to the wider population or dataset. 
We do not capture the second order impacts of climate risk 
exposures within our modelling approach, such as impacts on our 
counterparties from their supply chains.
 For a broad overview of the models that we use for our climate scenario 
analysis, as well as graphs that show how global carbon prices and carbon 
emissions will differ under our climate scenarios, see our ESG Data Pack at 
www.hsbc.com/esg.
How climate change is impacting our 
wholesale lending portfolio 
The 2024 climate scenario analysis exercise was designed to 
examine the climate risks and vulnerabilities of corporate 
counterparties across high transition risk sectors under climate 
scenarios of varying severity. Specifically, we measured the modelled 
effect on our projected ECL change over the short-, medium- and 
long-term horizons under each scenario. This was compared to a 
counterfactual scenario that excludes climate change impacts to 
isolate the climate only changes in ECL.
Counterparty specific analysis was conducted for those corporates 
where transition risk is elevated either from an overall sectoral 
perspective or in response to specific jurisdictional policies, which 
require HSBC to respond to regulatory requirements. This analysis 
was conducted to generate more granular counterparty-specific 
insights relative to previous exercises. 
The impact on our wholesale portfolios is demonstrated by the table 
below, which shows the size of exposures by sector in 2024 and the 
cumulative change in ECL compared with a counterfactual scenario 
(expressed as a multiple). The size of our exposure in each sector is 
represented by our exposure at default (‘EAD’) relative to one 
another.
Under the Current Commitments scenario, our modelled outputs 
predict that ECL will not be more than 25% higher than the 
counterfactual scenario for any of the assessed sectors. The highest 
impacts are seen in the chemicals, construction and building 
materials, power and utilities and agriculture and soft commodities 
sectors. Greater climate risks would crystallise in the Below 2 
Degrees scenario with its gradually increasing transition to net zero, 
driven by pockets of customers in higher-emitting sectors that are 
continuously exposed to larger climate-related losses.
The analysis shows credit risk losses continue to be driven by 
counterparties in certain high transition risk sectors where the 
Group’s largest exposures are concentrated, such as construction 
and building materials, chemicals, and power and utilities sectors. In 
these sectors we have counterparties, such as steel or cement 
manufacturers who have high emissions in their processes and in 
their downstream or upstream value chains, who may also 
experience cost pressures due to carbon-tax pass-through rates. 
Furthermore, harder to abate sectors contain a high proportion of 
customers without climate transition plans.
We have continued to incorporate information from our customers’ 
transition plans to consider how our clients and their sectors will be 
impacted. For the oil and gas sector, we see counterparties having 
relatively lower projected climate-related losses on a consistent basis, 
which is highly dependent on the assumption of continued 
government support and commitment to the execution of their 
complex transition plans.
In the case of the Severe Climate Stress scenario, we observed that 
impacts would be more severe and focused than other climate 
scenarios in the short- to medium-term. These impacts were driven 
by the underlying severity of the scenario, particularly due to the 
sharp increase in stricter climate policies and therefore carbon prices 
that adversely affect the debt servicing capabilities of companies, and 
acute extreme weather events.
We have the opportunity to ease potential negative impacts as 
transition risks increase, by supporting our customers to diversify into 
more renewable and greener revenue streams and invest in 
emission-reducing technologies.
Impact on wholesale lending portfolios
Wholesale 
sectors
Exposure 
at default 
(EAD)3 
2023
ECL increase 1, 2
Climate Scenarios
Current 
Commit
ments
Below 2 Degrees
Peak 4
Short 
term
Medium 
term
Long 
term
Conglomerates and 
industrials
n
Chemicals
n
Construction, 
contracting and 
building materials
n
Power and utilities
n
Oil and gas
n
Automotive
n
Land transport and 
logistics
n
Agriculture & soft 
commodities
n
Metals and mining 
n
Aviation 
n
Marine 
n
1 Increase in cumulative ECL compared with counterfactual over short-, 
medium- and long-term time horizons, expressed as a multiple.
2 Values in the key represent the multiplier of increase in ECL, i.e. <1.1 
equates to less than 10% increase over the counterfactual (or equivalent 
proxy which is most representative of baseline for the sector).
3 The size of the bubbles is a visual representation of the portfolios, in terms 
of EAD, relative to one another.
4 The peak multiplier reflects the maximum increase in ECL for the Current 
Commitments scenario over the forecasted scenario time horizon.
Lower 
Impact
<1.1x
<1.25x
<1.5x
<1.75x
<2.25x <2.75x Higher 
Impact
How climate change is impacting our 
retail mortgage portfolio 
As part of our 2024 climate scenario analysis exercise, we completed 
a detailed climate risk assessment for the UK, US, Singapore and 
Malaysia. In our 2023 exercise we also assessed Hong Kong, 
Australia and mainland China. Our coverage represented 91% of the 
balances in our global retail mortgage portfolio, across the two 
exercises. For our Hong Kong portfolio, we completed a short- and 
long-term scenario analysis exercise during late 2023 and early 2024 
at the request of the HKMA. 
Our analysis shows that over the longer term, we expect minimal 
losses to materialise when considering the Current Commitments 
scenario. Although the severity of climate perils is expected to 
worsen over time, our overall losses remain low under a severe 
Downside Physical Risk scenario.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
225
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

In 2024, we continued to develop our approach to assess impacts 
from severe acute physical risk events with an exploratory new nearterm Severe Climate Stress scenario.
Within all scenarios, loss impacts are assessed by considering 
borrowers’ ability and willingness to service their debts, including 
customers’ affordability incorporating increased debt servicing costs 
and the impact on property valuation.
When quantifying impacts from climate events, insurance availability 
is a key mitigation of loss. Our scenario analysis methodology was 
enriched further in 2024 by enhancing insurance availability and 
assumptions related to insurance premium costs. This approach has 
been benchmarked with the insurance industry, based on a 
calculation of average annualised loss. 
When assessing impacts from climate risk, we note that there are 
several limitations as mentioned previously. Specifically for our retail 
mortgage portfolio, these limitations include:
–
Lack of historical experience and limited benchmark data, 
especially around loss quantification, there is strong reliance on 
external peril models and vulnerability assumptions.
–
Accuracy of peril projection data relies upon the exact coordinates 
of a property. The geocoding process can lead to inaccurate 
results for some properties where address data is incomplete or in 
regions where geocoding services are less accurate. 
–
Additionally, a key assumption in quantifying the impacts from 
perils is the level of resilience a particular building archetype has, 
for example age of construction, material or relevant building 
standards. This information is often limited, and assumptions are 
made.
Projected peril risk 
Perils are assessed that are material to each region and where we 
have the external peril data available. 
Flooding has the potential to be the peril having the largest impact on 
our portfolio. When assessing the risk in the portfolio we assess both 
the inherent and residual risks. An inherent view considers property 
location, whereas the residual risk incorporates the resilience a 
particular building has to the peril impacts. The inherent flood risk is 
shown below, and outlines the percentage of properties and their 
corresponding flood depths predicted in a 1-in-100 year event.
In 2024, we provided further granularity in our flood risk table by 
reporting the proportion of properties that we would expect to be at 
no risk of flooding during a 1-in-100 year severity flood event. In the 
2024 exercise under the Baseline flood risk 1-in-100 year event for 
the UK, 92.1% of properties have no forecasted flood risk (2023: 
92.4%), as such c.8% of properties are situated in areas that could be 
exposed to varying severities of flooding, however there are often 
mitigating factors, such as the floor level of a building, that reduce 
risk. 
The table below outlines the flood depths that the properties would 
be exposed to under different climate scenarios. 
Exposure to flooding (%)1
Climate Scenarios
Markets
Flood 
depth 
(metres) 
Baseline flood 
risk 
1-in-100 year 
event2, 3 
Current 
Commitments
Downside 
Physical Risk
2024
2050
2050
UK
0
92.1
91.5
91.6
0-0.5
7.8
8.3
5.2
0.5-1.5
0.1
0.2
2.8
>1.5
0
0
0.4
Hong 
Kong4
0
67.9
64.0
64.0
0-0.5
16.9
17.0
15.5
0.5-1.5
15.1
18.9
20.4
>1.5
0.1
0.1
0.1
1 Severe flood events include river and surface flooding and coastal 
inundation. The table compares 2050 snapshots under the Current 
Commitments and Downside Physical Risk scenarios with a baseline view 
in 2024. We do expect to see changes to our flood depth distributions as 
climate risk data is refreshed.
2 Baseline flood risk is the flood risk for a 1-in-100 year event, based on 
current peril data.
3 2024 relates to the year in which the assessment was conducted. The 
baseline data is based on the mortgage portfolio as at 31 December 2023 
and 2022, for the UK and Hong Kong respectively.
4 In 2022, 94% of properties in Hong Kong (where HSBC provides 
mortgages) are apartments located on the second floor or above. For 
properties located in areas exposed to flooding, direct damages would be 
mitigated against, with only common ground floor areas potentially 
impacted.
Through our climate scenario analysis, we recognise acute impacts 
are more severe than long-term chronic impacts. We observed this 
when assessing the outputs under the Severe Climate Stress 
scenario, which focuses on prescribed physical risk events rather 
than recognising the probabilistic nature of these perils, which are 
considered very unlikely by 2030. Overall, our retail mortgage 
portfolio remains resilient to climate risk and impact severity is muted 
at portfolio levels as our book has diversified property locations with 
insurance coverage being a key loan covenant.
How climate change is impacting our 
commercial real estate portfolios
In our climate scenario analysis exercise, we assess our commercial 
real estate (‘CRE’) customers’ vulnerability to various perils, including 
flooding and cyclonic wind exposures. Our CRE portfolio is globally 
diversified with larger concentrations in Hong Kong, the UK, France 
and the US. In our 2024 exercise we carried out a detailed 
assessment of our UK portfolio. In addition, we performed a bespoke 
assessment of our Hong Kong portfolio via the HKMA climate 
scenario analysis exercise.
Geographical location is a key determinant in our exposure to 
potential physical risk events, which can lead to higher ECLs due to 
the cost of repairing damage as well as the longer-term impacts on 
property valuations. These can lead to higher defaults and 
consequential losses in areas where physical risk events are gradually 
increasing in frequency and severity. 
Risk review
226
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The table below shows the proportion of our CRE portfolio exposed 
to specific physical perils in our key markets. 
Exposure to peril (%)1
Market
Exposure 
at default 
(EAD)2 
2023
Coastal 
inundation
Cyclone 
wind3
Surface 
water 
flooding
Riverine 
flooding
Forest 
Fires
Hong 
Kong
n
1
100
12
10
2
UK
n
17
0
9
8
0
1 Proportion of our CRE portfolio exposed to specific physical perils in the 
Downside Physical Risk scenario as at 2050.
2 The size of the bubbles is a visual representation of the portfolios, in terms 
of EAD, relative to one another.
3 Assumes all properties are impacted by some damage due to extreme 
wind, but the intensity of impact is very insignificant and highly muted in 
some regions, represented by (~0%) exposure to this peril.
As assessed through our internal climate scenario analysis exercise, 
impacts on our UK portfolio are largely driven by chronic physical risk, 
related mainly to coastal and tidal river flooding due to a rise in sea 
level. The UK analysis explored acute weather events, such as 
extreme rainfall accompanied with storm winds that may lead to 
further property damage and business disruption. 
We assessed the impacts on transition risk for the UK portfolio, 
mainly focused on the impact of retrofitting costs on property 
valuations due to meet minimum energy performance certificate 
(‘EPC’) requirements for properties having low energy efficiency.
Sensitivity analysis has been conducted on EPC upgrade costs that 
would be higher in a faster transition scenario due to the accelerated 
pace of upgrades. In the Below 2 Degrees scenario, we assume 
actions where non-domestic properties are required to achieve an 
EPC rating of B by 2040. To meet these minimum standards, 
counterparties in our portfolio would potentially need to retrofit their 
properties or risk having stranded assets with a material valuation 
haircut. 
The table below demonstrates the impact on our CRE portfolio for 
specific markets, including the three biggest markets – Hong Kong, 
the UK and the US. This shows the increase in cumulative ECL over 
different time horizons, under each scenario, compared with a 
counterfactual scenario (expressed as a multiple). 
Impact on our commercial real estate portfolio
Climate Scenarios
ECL increase 1,2
Short-term
Medium-term
Long-term
Below 2 Degrees
Downside Physical Risk
Lower 
Impact
<1.1x
<1.25x
<1.5x
<1.75x
<2.25x <2.75x Higher 
Impact
1 Increase in cumulative ECL compared with counterfactual over short, 
medium and long-term time horizons, expressed as a multiple.
2 Values in the key represent the multiplier of increase in ECL, i.e. <1.1 
equates to less than 10% increase over the counterfactual which excludes 
climate change impacts.
Geographically, our most significant exposure is in Hong Kong, which 
was assessed in a bespoke exercise. This region has material 
physical risk exposure to wind and flooding due to strong tropical 
cyclones. However, in the HKMA exercise, a large proportion of CRE 
exposures were not materially impacted, with less than 0.5% of 
properties suffering from damage greater than 3% of their asset 
values per year. The properties are protected from cyclonic winds and 
flooding due to high building standards, high elevation, and protection 
from coastal defences in this region, such as rainstorm impacts being 
muted due to the positive impact of new drainage tunnels and tanks 
in the city.
Overall, and in line with our assessment in prior years, our analysis 
shows our commercial real estate portfolio remains resilient to 
climate risk. Under our Below 2 Degrees scenario, impact severity is 
muted at the portfolio level as our counterparties have diversified 
property portfolios with insurance coverage being a key loan 
covenant. Under the Downside Physical Risk scenario, the impacts 
were observed to be heightened due to significant global weather 
events. We also observed impacts in the Severe Climate Stress 
scenario are more significant, which were driven by coastal 
inundation and flooding events.
Our CRE modelling is subject to similar limitations as our retail 
mortgage climate models in regard to lack of historical data, reliance 
on exact building co-ordinates and information on building resilience.
How we assess climate risk impacts 
on other risk types
We use climate scenario analysis to assess the impacts on other 
risks including traded risk, sovereign credit risk, pension risk and nonfinancial risks. 
In 2024 for traded risk, we explored the potential fair value impacts of 
climate risks on our trading and banking portfolios across multiple 
scenarios, covering physical and transition risk climate drivers, and 
capturing short and long-term impacts. The analysis considered all 
relevant asset classes including interest rates, exchange rates, credit 
and equities, with market shocks capturing the impact of abrupt 
increases in carbon prices or physical risk perils resulting in structural 
economic impacts that affect the productivity of high-risk sectors at a 
country level.
For sovereign credit risk we continued to assess the impacts of 
climate risks on sovereign debt under the different climate scenarios. 
For pension risk we modelled balance sheet and income statement 
projections for the main defined benefit pension plans. This year’s 
exercise focused on assessing the impact of a severe physical risk 
shock using the Severe Climate Stress scenario.
For non-financial risk we assessed the potential impacts of a 
misstatement in our ESG and climate-related reporting and 
disclosures. For regulatory compliance risk, we assessed the 
potential impacts of greenwashing in the manufacturing and 
marketing of ESG funds and in the marketing of sustainability-linked 
bonds. For resilience risk, we assessed the potential impacts on our 
critical real estate from climate change, including temperature 
extremes, drought, water stress, wildfire, tropical cyclones and 
flooding. 
Understanding the resilience of our 
properties
Climate change poses a physical risk to the buildings that we occupy, 
potentially impacting our operational resilience. This includes our 
offices, retail branches and data centres, both in terms of loss and 
damage, and business interruption. 
We measure the impacts of climate and weather events on our 
buildings on an ongoing basis using historical, current and scenariomodelled forecast data. In 2024, there were 40 major storms that had 
a minor impact on three of our buildings.
We use stress testing to evaluate the potential impact on our owned 
or leased premises. Our 2024 scenario stress test analysed how nine 
climate change-related hazards – comprising coastal flooding, fluvial 
flooding, pluvial flooding, soil movement due to drought, temperature 
extremes, water stress, wildfires, landslides and tropical cyclones – 
could impact 2,719 of our properties.
The 2024 test modelled climate change with the Intergovernmental 
Panel on Climate Change (‘IPCC’) Taking the Highway scenario 
(SSP5-8.5), which projects that the rise in global temperatures will 
likely exceed 4°C by 2100. It also modelled a less severe IPCC Middle 
of the Road scenario (SSP2-4.5), which projects that global warming 
will likely be limited to 2°C.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
227
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Key findings from the Taking the Highway scenario included that by 
2050, 15 of our 2,719 properties will have a high potential for impact 
due to climate change, with insurance-related losses estimated to be 
in excess of 10% of the insured value of the buildings.
A key finding from the Middle of the Road scenario showed that the 
total number of buildings at risk reduced from 15 to 9. The 
highlighted facilities are still at risk from the same perils of extreme 
temperature and water stress by 2050.
This forward-looking data along with historical data helps inform real 
estate planning. We will continue to enhance our understanding of 
how extreme weather events impact our buildings portfolio as 
climate risk assessment tools improve and evolve. We buy insurance 
for property damage and business interruption and consider 
insurance as a loss-mitigation strategy depending on its availability 
and price.
We regularly review and enhance our building selection process and 
global engineering standards and will continue to assess historical 
claims data to help ensure our building selection and design 
standards address the potential impacts of climate change.
Conclusion to insights from climate 
scenario analysis
Climate scenario analysis is an evolving process and there are data 
and modelling limitations due to the information and expertise 
available in the current market. Physical risk modelling is nascent and 
currently we are only able to model direct climate peril impacts on 
real estate. Limited considerations are made to the pricing 
implications of new green products and clients that are likely to 
emerge over the time horizon.
We will continue to enhance the use of climate scenario analysis in 
our business decision making, supporting our climate resilience. We 
have started to explore the impacts on our portfolio from a nature risk 
perspective and expect the model and capabilities to evolve over 
time. 
Resilience risk
Overview
Resilience risk is the risk of sustained and significant business 
disruption from execution, delivery, physical security or safety events, 
causing the inability to provide critical services to our customers, 
affiliates and counterparties. Resilience risk arises from failures or 
inadequacies in processes, people, systems or external events.
Resilience risk management
Key developments in 2024
During the year, we conducted several initiatives to keep pace with 
geopolitical, regulatory and technology changes, and strengthened 
the management of resilience risk.
–
We continued to recognise that our customers were impacted by
service disruptions, responded to these urgently and aimed to
recover with minimum delay. We continued to initiate postincident review processes to prevent recurrence. Where we
identify that investment is required to further enhance the Group’s
operational resilience capabilities, findings are fed into the Group’s
financial planning, helping to ensure we continue to meet the
expectations of our customers and our regulators.
–
We continued to monitor markets affected by the Russia-Ukraine
war and the conflict in the Middle East, as well as other
geopolitical events, for any potential impact they may have on our
colleagues and operations.
–
We provided analysis and easy-to-access risk and control
information and metrics to enable management to focus on nonfinancial risks in their decision making and appetite setting.
–
We further strengthened our non-financial risk governance and
senior leadership.
We prioritise our efforts on material risks and areas undergoing 
strategic growth, aligning our location strategy to this need. We also 
remotely provide oversight and stewardship, including support of 
chief risk officers, in territories where we have no physical presence.
Governance and structure
The Enterprise Risk Management target operating model provides a 
globally consistent view across resilience risks, strengthening our risk 
management oversight while operating effectively as part of a 
simplified non-financial risk structure. 
We view resilience risk across nine sub-risk types related to: 
technology and cybersecurity risk; third-party risk; transaction 
processing risk; business interruption and incident risk; data risk; 
change execution risk; building unavailability risk; protective security 
risk and workplace safety.
Risk appetite and key escalations for resilience risk are reported to 
the Non-Financial Risk Management Board, chaired by the Group 
Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, with an escalation path to the 
Group Risk Management Meeting and Group Risk Committee.
Key risk management processes
We operate processes to support our resilience according to our Risk 
Management Framework. Our operational resilience is our ability to 
anticipate, prevent, adapt, respond to, recover, and learn from internal 
or external disruption, continuing to provide Important Business 
Services to customers and clients, while minimising impact on the 
wider financial system when disruption occurs. This is achieved via 
day-to-day oversight and periodic and ongoing assurance, such as 
deep dive reviews and controls testing, which may result in 
challenges being raised to our businesses and group governance by 
our risk stewards. We have invested to improve response and 
recovery strategies for our important business services and Important 
Group business services to meet regulatory and customer 
expectations.
Business operations continuity
We continue to monitor the Russia-Ukraine war and the conflict in the 
Middle East, and remain ready to take measures to ensure business 
continuity in affected markets should the situations require. There 
have been no related significant disruptions to our services, although 
businesses and functions in nearby markets continually review their 
plans and responses to minimise any potential impacts.
Risk review
228
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Regulatory compliance risk
Overview
Regulatory Compliance risk is the risk associated with breaching our 
duty to clients and other counterparties, inappropriate market conduct 
(including unauthorised trading) and breaching related financial 
services regulatory standards. Regulatory Compliance risk arises from 
the failure to observe relevant laws, codes, rules and regulations and 
can manifest itself in poor market or customer outcomes and lead to 
fines, penalties and reputational damage to our business. We aim to 
keep abreast of developments in legal principles or conduct 
requirements (including in relation to the risk of such developments in 
one part of the financial industry being construed as applying to other 
parts of the financial industry, which could lead to legal or regulatory 
proceedings).
Regulatory compliance risk 
management
Key developments in 2024
Regulatory horizon scanning and mapping capabilities continue to 
evolve with a focus on enhanced connectivity to Risk management 
systems to support better traceability of regulatory obligations. 
We have enhanced our processes, framework, and governance 
capabilities to improve the controls and oversight of Consumer Duty 
outcomes in the UK. Work is underway to transition from eventdriven technology to incorporate Cloud and analytics capability to 
enhance our oversight abilities in areas such as surveillance. 
Governance and structure
The Group Head of Regulatory Compliance reports to the Group Chief 
Risk and Compliance Officer. Regulatory Compliance and Financial 
Crime Compliance teams work together and with relevant 
stakeholders to achieve good conduct outcomes, and provide 
enterprise-wide support on the Compliance risk agenda in close 
collaboration with colleagues from the Group Risk and Compliance 
function.
Key risk management processes
The Global Regulatory Compliance capability is responsible for setting 
global policies, standards and risk appetite to guide the Group’s 
management of Regulatory Compliance risk. It also devises the 
required frameworks, support processes and tooling to protect 
against Regulatory Compliance risks. The Group capability provides 
oversight, review and challenge to the global market, regional and 
local line of business teams to help them identify, assess and 
mitigate Regulatory Compliance risks, where required. The Group’s 
Regulatory Compliance risk policies are regularly reviewed. Global 
policies and procedures require the identification and escalation of 
any actual or potential regulatory breaches. 
Relevant events and issues are escalated to the Group’s NonFinancial Risk Management Board, the Group Risk Management 
Meeting and the Group Risk Committee, as appropriate. The Group 
Head of Regulatory Compliance attends the Risk and Compliance 
Executive Committee, the Group Risk Management Meeting and the 
Group Risk Committee. 
Financial crime risk
Overview
Financial crime risk is the risk that HSBC’s products and services will 
be exploited for criminal activity. This includes fraud, bribery and 
corruption, tax evasion, sanctions and export control violations and 
evasion, money laundering, terrorist financing and proliferation 
financing. Financial crime risk arises from day-to-day banking 
operations involving customers, third parties and employees.
Financial crime risk management
Key developments in 2024
We regularly review the effectiveness of our financial crime risk 
management framework, which includes continued consideration of 
the complex and dynamic nature of sanctions compliance and export 
control risk. We continued to respond to the financial sanctions and 
trade restrictions that have been imposed on Russia, including 
methods used to limit sanctions evasion. 
We continued to make progress with several key financial crime risk 
management initiatives, including:
–
deployment of our intelligence-led, dynamic risk assessment 
capability for customer account monitoring in additional entities 
and global businesses;
–
deployment of a next generation capability to increase our 
monitoring coverage on correspondent banking activity in 
additional markets; 
–
enhancing our fraud controls and continuing to invest in, and 
monitor, technological developments; and
–
enhancements in response to the rapidly evolving and complex 
global payments landscape and refinement of our digital assets 
and currencies strategy.
Governance and structure
The structure of the Financial Crime function remained substantively 
unchanged in 2024. The Group Head of Financial Crime and Group 
Money Laundering Reporting Officer continues to report to the Group 
Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, while the Group Risk Committee 
retains oversight of matters relating to financial crime.
Key risk management processes
We will not tolerate knowingly conducting business with individuals 
or entities believed to be engaged in criminal activity. We require 
everybody in HSBC to play their role in maintaining effective systems 
and controls to prevent and detect financial crime. Where we believe 
we have identified suspected criminal activity or vulnerabilities in our 
control framework, we will take appropriate mitigating action. 
We manage financial crime risk because it is the right thing to do to 
protect our customers, shareholders, staff, the communities in which 
we operate, as well as the integrity of the financial system on which 
we all rely. We operate in a highly regulated industry in which these 
same policy goals are codified in law and regulation. 
We are committed to complying with the laws and regulations of all 
the markets in which we operate and apply a consistently high 
financial crime standard globally.
We continued to invest in enhancing our operational control 
capabilities and technology solutions to deter and detect criminal 
activity. We further strengthened our financial crime risk taxonomy 
and control libraries and our monitoring capabilities through 
technology deployments. We developed more targeted metrics, and 
continued to seek to enhance our governance and reporting. 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
229
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

We are committed to working in partnership with the wider industry 
and the public sector in managing financial crime risk. In 2024, our 
focus remained on measures to improve the overall effectiveness of 
the global financial crime framework and promote the risk-based 
approach. 
Through our work with industry bodies, such as the Wolfsberg Group, 
we provided input into legislative and regulatory reform activities and 
supported the efforts of the global standard setter, the Financial 
Action Task Force. We did this by contributing to the development of 
responses to consultation papers focused on how financial crime risk 
management frameworks can deliver more effective outcomes in 
detecting and deterring criminal activity. In addition, we participated 
in a number of public events related to the promotion of risk-based 
supervision, payment transparency, fraud risk management and 
financial inclusion, as well as tackling forestry crimes, wildlife 
trafficking and human trafficking.
Model risk
Overview
Model risk is the risk of the potential for adverse consequences from 
model errors or the inappropriate use of modelled outputs to inform 
business decisions.
Model risk arises in both financial and non-financial contexts 
whenever business decision making includes reliance on models. 
Key developments in 2024
In 2024, we continued to make improvements in our Model Risk 
Management (‘MRM’) processes amid regulatory changes in MRM 
requirements.
Initiatives during the year included: 
–
updating our MRM Framework to meet the requirements of the 
PRA’s SS1/23 with a programme of work in progress to 
implement these changes across the model landscape; 
–
completing a review of model tiering across the organisation 
assessing the materiality and complexity of all models and 
assigning a new tier which will drive the level of oversight required 
at model level; 
–
introducing a new framework to govern and manage the risks 
associated with Deterministic Quantitative Methods, which are 
complex and material calculators that although not technically 
models still present similar risks; 
–
following feedback from the PRA and other regulators on a 
number of our model submissions for internal ratings-based (‘IRB’) 
models, we are delivering a programme of work to redevelop 
several IRB models for wholesale credit;
–
enhancing our framework for the independent validation of models 
accounting for new generative AI techniques becoming more 
widely used; and
–
working closely with businesses and functions in developing a 
governance framework to manage the range of risks these AI and 
Machine Learning (‘ML’) techniques can introduce. 
Governance and structure
Model risk governance committees at the Group, business and 
functional levels provide oversight of model risk. The committees 
include senior leaders from the global businesses and the Group Risk 
and Compliance function, and focus on model-related concerns and 
are supported by key model risk metrics. We also have Model Risk 
Committees in our geographical regions focused on local delivery and 
requirements. The Group-level Model Risk Committee is chaired by 
the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, and the heads of key 
businesses participate in these meetings.
Key risk management processes
We use a variety of modelling approaches, including regression, 
simulation, sampling, machine learning and judgemental scorecards 
for a range of business applications. These activities include 
customer selection, product pricing, financial crime transaction 
monitoring, creditworthiness evaluation and financial reporting. Global 
responsibility for managing model risk is delegated from the Board to 
the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, who authorises the 
Group Model Risk Committee. This committee regularly reviews our 
model risk management policies and procedures, and requires the 
first line of defence to demonstrate comprehensive and effective 
controls based on a library of model risk controls provided by Model 
Risk Management. Model Risk Management also reports on model 
risk to senior management and the Group Risk Committee on a 
regular basis through the use of the risk map, risk appetite metrics 
and top and emerging risks. 
We regularly review the effectiveness of these processes, including 
the model risk committee structure, to help ensure appropriate 
understanding and ownership of model risk is embedded in the 
businesses and functions.
Risk review
230
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Insurance manufacturing 
operations risk
Contents
231
Overview
231
Insurance manufacturing operations risk management
232
Insurance manufacturing operations risk in 2024
232
Measurement
233
Key risk types
233
– Market risk
234
– Credit risk
234
– Liquidity risk 
235
– Insurance underwriting risk
Overview
The key risks for our insurance manufacturing operations are market 
risk, in particular interest rate and equity, credit risk and insurance 
underwriting risk. These have a direct impact on the financial results 
and capital positions of the insurance operations.
HSBC’s insurance business
We sell insurance products through a range of channels including our 
branches, insurance sales forces, direct channels and third-party 
distributors. The majority of sales are through an integrated 
bancassurance model that provides insurance products principally for 
customers with whom we have a banking relationship, although the 
proportion of sales through other sources such as independent 
financial advisers, tied agents and digital platforms is increasing.
For the insurance products we manufacture, the majority of sales are 
savings, universal life and protection contracts.
We choose to manufacture these insurance products in HSBC 
subsidiaries based on an assessment of operational scale and risk 
appetite. Manufacturing insurance allows us to retain the risks and 
rewards associated with writing insurance contracts by keeping part 
of the underwriting profit and investment income within the Group.
Our life insurance manufacturing subsidiaries operate in eight 
markets, which are Hong Kong, Macau, Singapore, mainland China, 
France, UK, Malta and Mexico. This excludes Argentina where the 
sale of the insurance business was completed on 6 December 2024. 
In addition, we have: an interest in a life insurance manufacturing 
associate in India; a captive insurance entity in Bermuda that insures 
the non-financial risks of the wider Group; and a reinsurance entity in 
Bermuda.
Where we do not have the risk appetite or operational scale to be an 
effective insurance manufacturer, we engage with a small number of 
leading external insurance companies in order to provide insurance 
products to our customers. These arrangements are generally 
structured with our exclusive strategic partners and earn the Group a 
combination of commissions, fees and a share of profits. We 
distribute insurance products in all of our geographical regions.
This section focuses only on the risks relating to the insurance 
products we manufacture.
Insurance manufacturing operations 
risk management
Key developments in 2024
The insurance manufacturing subsidiaries follow the Group’s risk 
management framework. In addition, there are specific policies and 
practices relating to the risk management of insurance contracts, 
which did not change materially over 2024. During the year, there 
was continued market volatility observed across interest rates, equity 
and credit markets and foreign exchange rates. This was 
predominantly driven by geopolitical factors and wider inflationary 
concerns. Other areas of focus were the ongoing integration of the 
insurance business that was acquired through AXA Singapore in 2022 
into the Group’s risk management framework, development of 
processes and systems within the reinsurance entity established in 
Bermuda, and controls supporting IFRS 17.
As mentioned, the insurance business in Argentina was sold during 
2024, with the sale completing on 6 December 2024. Following 
HSBC’s announcement on 20 December 2024 of the signing of a 
memorandum of understanding for the planned sale of its French 
insurance business, the balance sheet of the French business has 
been reported as held for sale at 31 December 2024. Further details 
are provided on page 411.
Governance and structure
(Audited)
Insurance manufacturing risks are managed to a defined risk appetite, 
which is aligned to the Group’s risk appetite and risk management 
framework, including its three lines of defence model. For details of 
the Group’s governance framework, see page 128. The Global 
Insurance Risk Management Meeting oversees the control 
framework globally and is accountable to the WPB Risk Management 
Meeting on risk matters relating to the insurance business.
The monitoring of the risks within our insurance operations is carried 
out by Insurance Risk teams. The Group’s risk stewardship functions 
support the Insurance Risk teams in their respective areas of 
expertise.
Stress and scenario testing
(Audited)
Stress testing forms a key part of the risk management framework 
for the insurance business. We participate in local and Group-wide 
regulatory stress tests, as well as internally developed stress and 
scenario tests, including Group internal stress test exercises.
The results of these stress tests and the adequacy of management 
action plans to mitigate these risks are considered in the Group’s 
ICAAP and the entities’ regulatory Own Risk and Solvency 
Assessments, which are produced by all material entities.
Key risk management processes
Market risk
(Audited) 
All our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries have market risk 
mandates and limits that specify the investment instruments in which 
they are permitted to invest and the maximum quantum of market 
risk that they may retain. They manage market risk by using some or 
all of the techniques listed below, among others, depending on the 
nature of the contracts written.
–
We are able to adjust bonus rates to manage the liabilities to 
policyholders for products with participating features. The effect is 
that a significant proportion of the market risk is borne by the 
policyholder.
–
We use asset and liability matching where asset portfolios are 
structured to support projected liability cash flows. The Group 
manages its assets using an approach that considers asset quality, 
diversification, cash flow matching, liquidity, volatility and target 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
231
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

investment return. We use models to assess the effect of a range 
of future scenarios on the values of financial assets and 
associated liabilities, and ALCOs employ the outcomes in 
determining how best to structure asset holdings to support 
liabilities.
–
We use derivatives and other financial instruments to protect 
against adverse market movements.
–
We design new products to mitigate market risk, such as 
changing the investment return sharing proportion between 
policyholders and the shareholder.
Credit risk
(Audited)
Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries also have credit risk 
mandates and limits within which they are permitted to operate, 
which consider the credit risk exposure, quality and performance of 
their investment portfolios. Our assessment of the creditworthiness 
of issuers and counterparties is based primarily upon internationally 
recognised credit ratings and other publicly available information.
Stress testing is performed on investment credit exposures using 
credit spread sensitivities and default probabilities.
We use a number of tools to manage and monitor credit risk. These 
include a credit report containing a watch-list of investments with 
current credit concerns, primarily investments that may be at risk of 
future impairment or where high concentrations to counterparties are 
present in the investment portfolio. Sensitivities to credit spread risk 
are assessed and monitored regularly.
Capital and liquidity risk
(Audited)
Capital risk for our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries is assessed 
in the Group’s ICAAP, based on their financial capacity to support the 
risks to which they are exposed. Capital adequacy is assessed on 
both the Group’s economic capital basis, and the relevant local 
insurance regulatory basis. 
Risk appetite buffers are set to ensure that the operations are able to 
remain solvent, allowing for business-as-usual volatility and extreme 
but plausible stress events.
Liquidity risk is less material for the insurance business. It is managed 
by cash flow matching and maintaining sufficient cash resources, 
investing in high credit-quality investments with deep and liquid 
markets, monitoring investment concentrations and restricting them 
where appropriate, and establishing committed contingency 
borrowing facilities.
Insurance manufacturing subsidiaries complete quarterly liquidity risk 
reports and an annual review of the liquidity risks to which they are 
exposed.
Insurance underwriting risk
(Audited) 
Our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries primarily use the following 
frameworks and processes to manage and mitigate insurance 
underwriting risks:
–
a formal approval process for launching new products or making 
changes to products;
–
a product pricing and profitability framework, which requires initial 
and ongoing assessment of the adequacy of premiums charged 
on new insurance contracts to meet the risks associated with 
them;
–
a framework for customer underwriting;
–
reinsurance, which cedes risks to third-party reinsurers to keep 
risks within risk appetite, reduce volatility and improve capital 
efficiency; and
–
oversight by financial reporting committees and actuarial review 
committees in each of our entities of the methodology and 
assumptions that underpin IFRS 17 reporting.
Insurance manufacturing operations risk in 2024
Measurement
The following tables show the composition of the fair value of underlying items of the Group’s participating contracts at the reporting date.
Life direct 
participating 
and investment 
DPF contracts1
Life
other 
contracts2
Other
contracts3
Shareholder 
assets
and liabilities
Total
At 31 Dec 2024
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Financial assets
 
98,676 
4,452 
6,227 
5,967 
115,322 
– trading assets
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured 
at fair value through profit or loss
 
94,327 
4,233 
4,839 
690 
104,089 
– derivatives
 
207 
7 
1 
— 
215 
– financial investments – at amortised cost
 
545 
90 
1,060 
4,335 
6,030 
– financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income
 
— 
— 
6 
73 
79 
– other financial assets
 
3,597 
122 
321 
869 
4,909 
Insurance contract assets
 
14 
104 
— 
— 
118 
Reinsurance contract assets
 
— 
5,013 
— 
— 
5,013 
Other assets and investment properties4
 
24,647 
64 
36 
3,337 
28,084 
Total assets at 31 Dec 2024
 
123,337 
9,633 
6,263 
9,304 
148,537 
Liabilities under investment contracts designated at fair value
 
— 
— 
5,931 
— 
5,931 
Insurance contract liabilities
 
102,605 
4,427 
— 
— 
107,032 
Reinsurance contract liabilities
 
— 
701 
— 
— 
701 
Deferred tax
 
— 
— 
— 
12 
12 
Other liabilities4
 
21,772 
39 
— 
6,035 
27,846 
Total liabilities
 
124,377 
5,167 
5,931 
6,047 
141,522 
Total equity
 
— 
— 
— 
7,015 
7,015 
Total liabilities and equity at 31 Dec 2024
 
124,377 
5,167 
5,931 
13,062 
148,537 
Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries by type of contract
(Audited)
Risk review
232
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Life direct 
participating and 
investment DPF 
contracts1
Life
other 
contracts2
Other
contracts3
Shareholder 
assets
and liabilities
Total
At 31 Dec 2023
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Financial assets
 
113,605 
3,753 
5,812 
7,696 
130,866 
– trading assets
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured 
at fair value through profit or loss
 
100,427 
3,593 
4,177 
1,166 
109,363 
– derivatives
 
258 
10 
— 
6 
274 
– financial investments – at amortised cost
 
1,351 
67 
1,157 
4,772 
7,347 
– financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income
 
8,859 
— 
5 
693 
9,557 
– other financial assets
 
2,710 
83 
473 
1,059 
4,325 
Insurance contract assets
 
13 
213 
— 
— 
226 
Reinsurance contract assets
 
— 
4,871 
— 
— 
4,871 
Other assets and investment properties
 
2,782 
164 
35 
1,636 
4,617 
Total assets at 31 Dec 2023
 
116,400 
9,001 
5,847 
9,332 
140,580 
Liabilities under investment contracts designated at fair value
 
— 
— 
5,103 
— 
5,103 
Insurance contract liabilities
 
116,389 
3,961 
— 
— 
120,350 
Reinsurance contract liabilities
 
— 
819 
— 
— 
819 
Deferred tax
 
— 
1 
— 
3 
4 
Other liabilities
 
— 
— 
— 
6,573 
6,573 
Total liabilities
 
116,389 
4,781 
5,103 
6,576 
132,849 
Total equity
 
— 
— 
— 
7,731 
7,731 
Total liabilities and equity at 31 Dec 2023
 
116,389 
4,781 
5,103 
14,307 
140,580 
Balance sheet of insurance manufacturing subsidiaries by type of contract
(Audited)
1 ‘Life direct participating and investment DPF contracts’ are life direct participating contracts and investment contracts with discretionary participating features. 
These are substantially measured under the variable fee approach measurement model.
2 ‘Life other contracts’ are measured under the general measurement model and mainly include protection insurance contracts as well as reinsurance contracts. 
The reinsurance contracts primarily provide diversification benefits over the life direct participating and investment DPF contracts.
3 ‘Other contracts’ includes investment contracts for which HSBC does not bear significant insurance risk.
4 ’Other assets and investment properties’ includes $24,222m and ’Other liabilities’ includes $23,420m in respect of the classification of the French insurance 
business assets and liabilities as held for sale at 31 December 2024. Further details are provided on page 411.
Key risk types 
Market risk
(Audited)
Description and exposure
Market risk is the risk of changes in market factors affecting HSBC’s 
capital or profit. Market factors include interest rates, equity and growth 
assets, credit spreads and foreign exchange rates. 
Our exposure varies depending on the type of contract issued. Our most 
significant life insurance products are contracts with participating 
features. These products typically include some form of capital guarantee 
or guaranteed return on the sums invested by the policyholders, to which 
bonuses are added if allowed by the overall performance of the funds. For 
contracts without participating features, some form of guarantee may still 
exist but HSBC’s ability to share risks with policyholders will be reduced. 
Funds supporting these savings products are primarily invested in fixed 
income, with a proportion in some cases allocated to other asset classes 
to provide customers with the potential for enhanced returns.
These products expose HSBC to the risk of variation in asset returns, 
which will impact our participation in the investment performance. 
In addition, in some scenarios the asset returns can become insufficient 
to cover the policyholders’ financial guarantees, and some contracts are 
non-participating, in which case the shortfall has to be met by HSBC. 
Amounts are held against the cost of such positions, calculated by 
stochastic modelling in the larger entities.
The cost of such guarantees are generally not material and are absorbed 
by the insurance fulfilment cash flows. 
For unit-linked contracts, market risk is substantially borne by the 
policyholder, but some market risk exposure typically remains, as fees 
earned are related to the market value of the linked assets.
Sensitivities
The following table provides the impacts on the CSM, profit after tax and 
equity of our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries from reasonably 
possible effects of changes in selected interest rate, credit spread, equity 
price, growth assets and foreign exchange rate scenarios for the year. 
These sensitivities are prepared in accordance with current IFRS 
Accounting Standards and are based on changing one assumption at a 
time with other variables being held constant, recognising that in practice 
such variables could be correlated.
Due in part to the impact of the cost of guarantees and hedging strategies 
which may be in place, the relationship between the CSM, profit after tax 
and total equity and the risk factors is non-linear. Therefore, the results 
disclosed should not be extrapolated to measure sensitivities to different 
levels of stress. For the same reason, the impact of the stress is not 
necessarily symmetrical on the upside and downside. The sensitivities 
are stated before allowance for management actions, which may mitigate 
the effect of changes in the market environment. 
The method used for deriving sensitivity information and significant 
market risk factors remain unchanged except for updates made to the 
foreign exchange rate risk methodology, which now limits the impacts to 
within more recent historical ranges. 2023 comparative sensitivities have 
been updated to reflect this change.
The sensitivities provided below include the French insurance 
business, which was classified as held for sale at 31 December 2024. 
Further details are provided on page 411.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
233
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Sensitivity of HSBC’s insurance manufacturing subsidiaries to market risk factors
(Audited)
2024
2023
Effect on 
CSM
Effect on profit 
after tax1
Effect on 
total equity
Effect on 
CSM
Effect on 
profit after tax1
Effect on 
total equity
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
+100 basis point parallel shift in yield curves
 
(155) 
83 
52 
(92) 
66 
32 
-100 basis point parallel shift in yield curves
 
(249) 
(217) 
(186) 
(390) 
(137) 
(103) 
+100 basis point shift in credit spreads
 
(907) 
(84) 
(115) 
(884) 
(11) 
(45) 
-100 basis point shift in credit spreads
 
876 
60 
91 
806 
104 
138 
10% increase in growth assets2
 
467 
73 
73 
436 
78 
78 
10% decrease in growth assets2
 
(514) 
(79) 
(79) 
(507) 
(85) 
(85) 
10% appreciation in US dollar exchange rate against local 
functional currency3
 
71 
17 
17 
24 
(1) 
(1) 
10% depreciation in US dollar exchange rate against local 
functional currency3
 
(26) 
(3) 
(3) 
(35) 
(3) 
(3) 
1 ‘Effect on profit after tax‘ in respect for the year.
2 ‘Growth assets’ primarily comprise equity securities and investment properties. Variability in growth asset fair value constitutes a market risk to insurance 
manufacturing subsidiaries.
3 During the year 10% US dollar exchange rate methodology changed and the 10% sensitivity range applies to all currencies except for the Hong Kong dollar, 
where the extent of change is limited by the impact of the HKD to USD peg. The comparatives have been restated accordingly.
Credit risk
(Audited)
Description and exposure 
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty 
fails to meet their obligation under a contract. It arises in two main 
risks for our insurance manufacturers:
–
the risk associated with credit spread volatility and default by debt 
security counterparties after investing premiums to generate a 
return for policyholders and shareholders; and
–
the risk of default by reinsurance counterparties and nonreimbursement for claims made after ceding insurance risk.
The amounts outstanding at the balance sheet date in respect 
of these items are shown in the table on page 232.
The credit quality of the reinsurers’ share of liabilities under insurance 
contracts is assessed as ‘satisfactory’ or higher (as defined on 
page 139), with none of the exposure being either past due or 
impaired (2023: none). 
Credit risk on assets supporting unit-linked liabilities is predominantly 
borne by the policyholders. Therefore, our exposure is primarily 
related to liabilities under non-linked insurance and investment 
contracts and shareholders’ funds. The credit quality of insurance 
financial assets is included in the table on page 166. 
The risk associated with credit spread volatility is to a large extent 
mitigated by holding debt securities to maturity, and sharing a degree 
of credit spread experience with policyholders.
Liquidity risk
(Audited)
Description and exposure
Liquidity risk is the risk that an insurance operation, though solvent, 
either does not have sufficient financial resources available to meet 
its obligations when they fall due, or can secure them only at 
excessive cost. Liquidity risk may be able to be shared with 
policyholders for products with participating features.
The remaining maturity of insurance contract liabilities is included in 
Note 4 on page 373.
The amounts of insurance contract liabilities that are payable on demand are set out by the product grouping below; 2024 balances exclude the 
French insurance business that was classified as held for sale at 31 December 2024 (further details are provided on page 411).
Amounts payable on demand
(Audited)
2024
2023
Amounts payable 
on demand
Carrying amount 
for these 
contracts
Amounts payable 
on demand
Carrying amount 
for these contracts
$m
$m
$m
$m
Life direct participating and investment DPF contracts
 
98,275 
102,605 
107,287 
116,389 
Life other contracts
 
2,960 
4,427 
2,765 
3,961 
At 31 Dec
 
101,235 
107,032 
110,052 
120,350 
Risk review
234
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Insurance underwriting risk
Description and exposure
Insurance underwriting risk is the risk of loss through adverse 
experience, in either timing or amount, of insurance underwriting 
parameters (non-economic assumptions). These parameters include 
mortality, morbidity, longevity, lapse and expense rates.
The principal risk we face is that, over time, the cost of the contract, 
including claims and benefits, may exceed the total amount of 
premiums and investment income received. 
The tables on page 232 analyse our life insurance underwriting risk 
exposures by composition of the fair value of the underlying items. 
The insurance underwriting risk profile and related exposures remain 
largely consistent with those observed at 31 December 2023. 
Sensitivities 
(Audited)
The following table shows the sensitivity of the CSM, profit and total 
equity to reasonably foreseeable changes in non-economic 
assumptions across all our insurance manufacturing subsidiaries. 
These sensitivities are prepared in accordance with current IFRS.
Sensitivity to lapse rates depends on the type of contracts 
being written. An increase in lapse rates typically has a negative 
effect on CSM (and therefore expected future profits) due to the loss 
of future income on the lapsed policies. However, some contract 
lapses have a positive effect on profit due to the existence of policy 
surrender charges. 
Mortality and morbidity risk is typically associated with life insurance 
contracts. During the year we have revised the sensitivity to mortality 
and morbidity rates from 10% to 5% to align with reasonably 
foreseeable changes, and the comparatives have been restated 
accordingly. The effect on profit of an increase in mortality or 
morbidity depends on the type of business being written. 
Expense rate risk is the exposure to a change in the allocated cost 
of administering insurance contracts. To the extent that increased 
expenses cannot be passed on to policyholders, an increase in 
expense rates will have a negative effect on our profits. This risk is 
generally greatest for our smaller entities.
The impact of changing insurance underwriting risk factors is primarily 
absorbed within the CSM, unless contracts are onerous in which case 
the impact is directly to profit. The impact of changes to the CSM is 
released to profits over the expected coverage periods of the related 
insurance contracts. 
The sensitivities provided below include the French insurance 
business, which was classified as held for sale at 31 December 2024. 
Further details are provided on page 411.
Sensitivity of HSBC’s insurance manufacturing subsidiaries to insurance underwriting risk factors1
(Audited)
Effect on 
CSM
Effect on 
profit after tax2
Effect on 
total equity
At 31 Dec 2024
$m
$m
$m
10% increase in lapse rates
 
(282) 
(21) 
(30) 
10% decrease in lapse rates
 
297 
23 
36 
5% increase in mortality and/or morbidity rates
 
(92) 
(16) 
(20) 
5% decrease in mortality and/or morbidity rates
 
102 
14 
23 
10% increase in expense rates
 
(66) 
(11) 
(15) 
10% decrease in expense rates
 
68 
12 
15 
At 31 Dec 2023
10% increase in lapse rates
 
(277) 
(24) 
(24) 
10% decrease in lapse rates
 
290 
29 
29 
5% increase in mortality and/or morbidity rates3
 
(87) 
(11) 
(11) 
5% decrease in mortality and/or morbidity rates3
 
87 
16 
16 
10% increase in expense rates
 
(68) 
(6) 
(6) 
10% decrease in expense rates
 
67 
11 
11 
1 The sensitivities impacts are provided after considering the impacts of reinsurance contracts held as risk mitigation. 
2 ‘Effect on profit after tax‘ in respect for the year.
3 During the year the sensitivity to mortality and morbidity rates have been changed from 10% to 5% and the comparatives have been restated accordingly.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
235
Risk review

--- PAGE BREAK ---

236
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Corporate 
governance 
report
HSBC continues to enhance its corporate 
governance practices and procedures to 
support the Board’s commitment to high 
standards of corporate governance.
The corporate governance report contains the 
Report of the Directors and gives details of our 
Board of Directors, senior management, and 
Board committees. It outlines key aspects of 
our approach to corporate governance, 
including internal control.
It also includes the Directors’ remuneration 
report, which explains our policies on 
remuneration and their application.
We have a comprehensive range of policies and systems 
in place designed to help ensure that the Group is well 
managed, with effective oversight and control.
237 
The Board
242
Senior management
245
How we are governed
251 
Board matters considered and workforce 
engagement
257
Board and committee effectiveness,
performance and accountability
259
Board committees
279
Directors’ remuneration report
318
Share capital and other related governance 
disclosures
323
Internal control
325
Employees
327
Statement of compliance
London, UK, 2019. HSBC Lion, 8 Canada Square.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The Board
The Board, which seeks to promote the Group’s long-term success, 
deliver sustainable value to shareholders and promote a culture 
of openness and debate, comprises diverse, high-calibre members 
who have experience in our global markets.
Chairman and executive Directors
Sir Mark E Tucker (67) 
Group Chairman
Appointed to the Board: September 2017
Group Chairman since: October 2017
Skills and experience: With over 40 years of 
experience in financial services in Asia, the US, the 
UK, and Africa, including 30 years based in Hong 
Kong, Mark has a deep understanding of the 
industry and the markets in which we operate.
Career: Mark is also non-executive Group Chairman 
of the Discovery Group of South Africa. Mark was 
previously Group Chief Executive and President of 
AIA Group Limited (‘AIA’). Prior to that, he was 
Group Chief Executive of Prudential plc. Mark 
previously served on the Court of the Bank of 
England. He has also served on the Board of the 
Goldman Sachs Group.
External appointments:
– Non-executive Group Chairman of Discovery 
Group of South Africa
– Supporting Chair of Chapter Zero
– Member of the Asia Business Council
– Member of the Hong Kong Chief Executive’s 
Council of Advisers
– Member of the Investment Council of the 
Supreme National Investment Committee of the 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
– Chairman of the Multinational Chairmen’s Group 
– Director, Peterson Institute for International 
Economics
– Director, Institute of International Finance
– Trustee, Asia Society Global Board of Trustees
– Member of the China National Financial 
Regulatory Administration International Advisory 
Council (NFRA IAC) 
– International Adviser, Hong Kong Academy of 
Finance - International Council of Advisers 
– Member of the Advisory Board of the Asia Global 
Institute 
– International Business Leaders’ Advisory Council 
to the Mayor of Beijing (IBLAC Beijing) – Advisor 
to the Mayor
– International Business Leaders’ Advisory Council 
to the Mayor of Shanghai (IBLAC Shanghai) – 
Advisor to the Mayor
Georges Elhedery (50) 
Group CEO
Appointed to the Board: January 2023
Skills and experience: Georges has over 25 years 
of experience in the banking industry across 
Europe, the Middle East and Asia, and has held a 
number of executive roles at a regional, global 
business and functional level.
Career: Georges was appointed Group CEO from 
2 September 2024. He most recently served as 
Group CFO between January 2023 and September 
2024. Georges joined HSBC in 2005 with extensive 
trading experience in London, Paris and Tokyo. He 
has since held a number of senior leadership roles, 
including Head of Global Banking and Markets, 
Middle East and North Africa; Chief Executive 
Officer for HSBC, Middle East, North Africa and 
Türkiye; Global Head of Markets; and co-Chief 
Executive Officer, Global Banking and Markets 
based in London. 
External appointments:
– Member of the Monetary Authority of Singapore, 
International Advisory Panel
– Independent non-executive Director of 
Sustainable Markets Initiative Limited 
– Member of the Financial Services Task Force of 
the Sustainable Markets Initiative
– Member of the Advisory Board of The China 
Children Development Fund
– Principal Member of The Glasgow Financial 
Alliance for Net Zero
Manveen Kaur
(known as Pam Kaur) (61) 
Group CFO 
Appointed to the Board: January 2025
Skills and experience: Pam has extensive global 
banking experience, gained over an almost 40-year 
career with a number of global financial institutions. 
She has performed many senior roles in audit, 
business, compliance, finance and risk 
management.
Career: Pam was appointed Group CFO on 
1 January 2025. Prior to this, she served as Group 
Chief Risk Officer from January 2020 and assumed 
responsibility for Compliance in June 2021. She 
served as Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer 
until December 2024. Prior to joining HSBC in April 
2013 as Group Head of Internal Audit, Pam held 
several senior positions including Global Head of 
Group Audit for Deutsche Bank; Chief Financial 
Officer and Chief Operating Officer of the 
Restructuring and Risk Division for Royal Bank of 
Scotland Group plc; Group Head of Compliance and 
Anti-Money Laundering for Lloyds TSB; and Chief 
Compliance Officer for Citigroup International.
External appointments: 
– Non-executive Director of The Hongkong and 
Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited 
– Independent non-executive Director of abrdn plc 
.
Board committee membership key
 Committee Chair
 Group Audit Committee
 Group Risk Committee
 Group Remuneration Committee
 Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee
 Group Technology and Operations Committee
For full biographical details of our Board 
members, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/ourpeople/board-of-directors.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
237
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Independent non-executive Directors
Geraldine Buckingham (47) 
 
Independent non-executive 
Director
Appointed to the Board: May 2022 
Skills and experience: Geraldine is 
an experienced executive within the 
global financial services industry, with 
significant leadership experience in 
Asia. 
Career: Geraldine is the former Chair 
and Head of Asia-Pacific at BlackRock, 
where she was responsible for all 
business activities across Hong Kong, 
mainland China, Japan, Australia, 
Singapore, India and Korea. After 
stepping down from this role, she 
acted as senior adviser to the 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
of BlackRock. She earlier served as 
BlackRock’s Global Head of Corporate 
Strategy, and previously was a partner 
within McKinsey & Company’s 
financial services practice. 
External appointments: 
– Independent non-executive Director 
of Brunswick Group Partnership Ltd
– Independent non-executive Director 
of H.R.L. Morrison & Co Limited
– Member of the Advisory Board of 
ClimateWorks Centre Australia
– Member of the Advisory Board of 
the McKinsey Health Institute
Rachel Duan (54) 
 
 
 
Independent non-executive 
Director
Appointed to the Board: September 
2021
Skills and experience: Rachel is an 
experienced business leader with 
exceptional international experience in 
the US, Japan, mainland China and 
Hong Kong.
Career: Rachel spent 24 years at 
General Electric (‘GE’), where she 
held positions including Senior Vice 
President of GE, and President and 
Chief Executive Officer of GE’s Global 
Markets where she was responsible 
for driving GE’s growth in Asia-Pacific, 
the Middle East, Africa, Latin America, 
Russia and the Commonwealth of 
Independent States. She also 
previously served as President and 
Chief Executive Officer of GE 
Advanced Materials China and then of 
Asia-Pacific; President and CEO of GE 
Healthcare China; and President and 
CEO of GE China. She has previously 
served as a non-executive Director of 
AXA S.A.
External appointments: 
– Independent non-executive Director 
of Sanofi S.A.
– Independent non-executive Director 
of the Adecco Group AG
– Independent non-executive Director 
of Kering S.A.
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn (64)
 
 
Independent non-executive 
Director
Appointed to the Board: September 
2021
Skills and experience: Carolyn has 
significant experience across the 
media, government and finance 
sectors, and a deep understanding of 
the macroeconomic, regulatory and 
political environment.
Career: An economist by training, 
Carolyn has served as a partner at 
McKinsey & Company, a member of 
the UK prime minister John Major’s 
Number 10 Policy Unit, and as 
Director-General of the Confederation 
of British Industry, and held senior 
executive positions at the BBC and 
ITV plc. She has extensive board 
experience, having previously served 
as non-executive Director of Lloyds 
Banking Group plc, The Vitec Group 
plc, Capita plc and BAE Systems plc. 
She has also served as a nonexecutive Director of the UK 
Competition and Markets Authority 
and the Financial Services Authority.
External appointments: 
– Senior Independent non-executive 
Director of Tesco plc
– Chair of Royal Mencap Society
 
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
238
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

James Forese (61) 
 
 
Independent non-executive 
Director
Appointed to the Board: May 2020
Skills and experience: Jamie has 
over 30 years of international 
business and management 
experience in the finance industry 
working in areas including global 
markets, investment and private 
banking.
Career: Jamie formerly served as 
President of Citigroup. He began his 
career in securities trading with 
Salomon Brothers, one of Citigroup’s 
predecessor companies, in 1985. In 
addition to his most recent role as 
Citigroup’s President, he was Chief 
Executive Officer of Citigroup’s 
Institutional Clients Group. He has 
held the positions of Chief Executive 
of its Securities and Banking division 
and Head of its Global Markets 
business.
External appointments: 
– Non-executive Chair of HSBC North 
America Holdings Inc
– Non-executive Chairman of Global 
Bamboo Technologies
Ann Godbehere (69) 
 
 
Independent non-executive 
Director
Appointed to the Board: September 
2023 
Senior Independent non-executive 
Director: May 2024
Skills and experience: Ann brings 
deep financial acumen and extensive 
financial services experience over a 
30-year career spanning insurance, 
retail and private banking, and wealth 
management. She also provides 
global perspectives, drawing upon 
experiences and insights gained from 
a long career in international business.
Career: After joining Swiss Re in 
1996, Ann served as the company’s 
Chief Financial Officer from 2003 to 
2007. She was also Interim Chief 
Financial Officer of Northern Rock 
Bank from 2008 to 2009 in the period 
immediately after its nationalisation. 
Ann also has extensive board 
experience, including with FTSE 100 
companies, having previously served 
as non-executive Director of 
Prudential plc, British American 
Tobacco plc, UBS AG, UBS Group AG 
and as Senior Independent nonexecutive Director of Rio Tinto plc and 
Rio Tinto Limited.
External appointments: 
– Non-executive Director of HSBC 
Bank plc 
– Non-executive Director and Chair of 
the Audit Committee of Stellantis 
N.V.
– Non-executive Director and Chair of 
the Audit and Risk Committee of 
Shell plc
Steven Guggenheimer (59) 
 
 
Independent non-executive 
Director
Appointed to the Board: May 2020
Skills and experience: Steven 
brings extensive insight into 
technologies ranging from artificial 
intelligence to Cloud computing, 
through his experience advising 
businesses on digital transformation.
Career: Steven has more than 25 
years of experience at Microsoft, 
including more than a decade as 
Corporate Vice President, where he 
led teams focused on original 
equipment manufacturers, developers 
and independent software vendors 
and artificial intelligence solutions.
External appointments: 
– Independent non-executive Director 
of BT Group plc
– Independent non-executive Director 
of Leupold & Stevens, Inc
– Independent non-executive Director 
of Forrit Holdings Limited
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
239
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Dr José Antonio Meade 
Kuribreña (55) 
 
Independent non-executive 
Director
Appointed to the Board: March 2019
Workforce engagement non-executive 
Director since: June 2022
Skills and experience: José has 
extensive experience in public 
administration, banking and financial 
policy.
Career: José has held Cabinet-level 
positions in the federal government of 
Mexico, including as Secretary of 
Finance and Public Credit, Secretary 
of Social Development, Secretary of 
Foreign Affairs and Secretary of 
Energy. Prior to his appointment to 
the Cabinet, he served as 
Undersecretary and as Chief of Staff 
in the Ministry of Finance and Public 
Credit. José is also a former Director 
General of Banking and Savings at the 
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit, 
and served as Chief Executive Officer 
of the National Bank for Rural Credit.
External appointments: 
–
Independent non-executive 
Director of Alfa S.A.B. de C.V.
–
Independent non-executive 
Director of Grupo Comercial 
Chedraui, S.A.B. de C.V.
–
Independent Member of the 
Technical Committee of Fibra Uno 
Administracion SA de CV
–
Board member of the Global 
Center on Adaptation
–
Member of the Advisory Board of 
the University of California, Centre 
for US-Mexican Studies
–
Member of the UNICEF Mexico 
Advisory Board
Kalpana Morparia (75) 
 
 
Independent non-executive 
Director
Appointed to the Board: March 2023
Skills and experience: Kalpana is a 
skilled business leader with significant 
experience gained through a 45-year 
career in banking across Asia, 
primarily in India.
Career: Kalpana’s most recent 
executive role was as Chair of J.P. 
Morgan, South and Southeast Asia 
and a member of J.P. Morgan’s Asia 
executive committee, held until her 
retirement in 2021. Before J.P. 
Morgan, she was the Joint Managing 
Director of ICICI Bank, India’s secondlargest bank, from 2001 to 2007. She 
previously served as a non-executive 
Director of Hindustan Unilever Limited 
and Dr.Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd. 
External appointments: 
–
Independent non-executive 
Director of The Great Eastern 
Shipping Company Limited
–
Independent non-executive 
Director of Philip Morris 
International Inc
–
Independent Director of Meesho 
Inc 
–
Member of the Mentor Council of 
the Institute for Sustainability, 
Employment and Growth (ISEG 
Foundation)
Eileen Murray (66) 
 
 
 
 
Independent non-executive 
Director
Appointed to the Board: July 2020
Skills and experience: Eileen has 
extensive knowledge in financial 
services, technology and corporate 
strategy from a career spanning more 
than 40 years.
Career: Eileen previously served as 
co-Chief Executive Officer of 
Bridgewater Associates, LP. Before 
this, she was Chief Executive Officer 
for Investment Risk Management 
LLC, and President and co-Chief 
Executive Officer of Duff Capital 
Advisors. Eileen started her 
professional career at Morgan 
Stanley, where she held positions 
including Controller, Treasurer, and 
Global Head of Technology and 
Operations, as well as Chief 
Operating Officer for its Institutional 
Securities Group. She was also Head 
of Global Technology, Operations and 
Product Control at Credit Suisse.
External appointments: 
– Independent non-executive Director 
of Guardian Life Insurance 
Company of America
– Independent non-executive Director 
of Broadridge Financial Solutions, 
Inc
– Chair of Invisible Urban Charging
– Operating partner of Liberty City 
Ventures
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
240
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Brendan Nelson (75) 
 
 
 
Independent non-executive 
Director
Appointed to the Board: September 
2023
Skills and experience: Brendan 
brings UK and international financial 
and auditing expertise, and significant 
experience in auditing and as audit 
committee chair of UK-listed 
companies.
Career: Brendan spent over 25 years 
as a partner at KPMG LLP, served on 
the board from 2000 and as Vice 
Chairman from 2006, until his 
retirement in 2010. Internationally, he 
held various senior positions including 
Global Chairman of the financial 
services practice. Subsequently, 
Brendan joined the boards of bp plc 
and NatWest Group plc where he also 
served as Chairman of both 
companies’ audit committees.
During his career, Brendan was 
President of the Institute of Chartered 
Accountants of Scotland, a member 
of the Financial Reporting Review 
Panel and a member of the Financial 
Services Authority's Practitioner 
Panel. As current Chairman of the 
Board of BP Pension Trustees Ltd, 
Brendan has received training in ESG 
considerations for investment 
decisions and helped set an ambition 
to be net zero in terms of greenhouse 
gas emissions from investments by 
2050. 
External appointments: 
– Non-executive Director of HSBC UK 
Bank plc 
– Chairman of BP Pension Trustees 
Ltd
Swee Lian Teo (65) 
 
 
Independent non-executive 
Director
Appointed to the Board: October 2023
Skills and experience: Swee Lian 
brings extensive experience within 
the international financial services 
industry, having previously spent over 
27 years with the Monetary Authority 
of Singapore (‘MAS‘).
Career: During Swee Lian’s time at 
the MAS, she worked in foreign 
reserves management, financial 
sector development, strategic 
planning and financial supervision, 
before she became the Deputy 
Managing Director for Financial 
Supervision. She retired from the 
MAS in 2015 after serving as Special 
Advisor, focused on MAS’s role in the 
international regulatory framework, in 
the Managing Director’s office. Swee 
Lian previously served as a nonexecutive Director on the boards of 
AIA Group Limited, Singapore 
Telecommunications Limited and the 
Dubai Financial Services Authority.
External appointments: 
– Chair of CapitaLand Integrated 
Commercial Trust Management 
Limited
– Director of Clifford Capital Pte Ltd
– Director of Clifford Capital Holdings 
Pte Ltd
Aileen Taylor (52)
Group Chief People & 
Governance Officer
Appointed: October 2024
Skills and experience: Aileen is 
a solicitor with significant risk, 
governance and regulatory 
experience across the banking 
industry. She is a member of the 
European Corporate Governance 
Council and the GC100.
Career: Prior to joining HSBC, 
Aileen spent 19 years at the 
Royal Bank of Scotland Group, 
holding various legal, risk and 
compliance roles. She was 
appointed Group Secretary in 
2010 and subsequently Chief 
Governance Officer and Board 
Counsel. Aileen started her HSBC 
career as Group Company 
Secretary and Chief Governance 
Officer in 2019 and has been 
leading connectivity between 
Board and Executive for over five 
years. Her role was expanded to 
Group Chief Human Resources 
and Governance Officer in 
October 2024 and then became 
Group Chief People & 
Governance Officer. Aileen has 
held various industry positions 
such as a member of the 
Financial Conduct Authority's 
Listing Authority Advisory Panel. 
Former Directors who served during the year
David Nish
David Nish retired from the Board on 3 May 2024
Sir Noel Quinn
Sir Noel Quinn retired from the Board on 2 September 2024
For full biographical details of our Board members, see 
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-people/board-of-directors.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
241
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Senior management
Richard Blackburn (59) 
Interim Group Chief Risk and 
Compliance Officer 
Richard was appointed Interim Group 
Chief Risk and Compliance Officer in 
January 2025. He also retains his 
existing responsibilities as Global 
Head of Traded and Treasury Risk 
Management & Global Head of Risk 
Analytics. Richard has 35 years’ 
experience in the financial services 
sector and has been with HSBC for 
over 20 years. In that time, he has 
held a number of senior roles 
including Regional Chief Risk Officer 
for Europe and MENAT, Chief Risk & 
Compliance Officer for Global Banking 
& Markets, Chief Risk & Compliance 
Officer for Global Commercial 
Banking, Chief Financial Officer for 
Global Markets and Head of Global 
Markets Asset & Liability 
Management. 
Jonathan Calvert-Davies (56) 
Group Head of Internal Audit
Jonathan is a standing attendee of the 
Group Operating Committee, having 
joined HSBC as Group Head of 
Internal Audit in October 2019. He has 
over 30 years of experience providing 
assurance, audit and advisory services 
to the banking and securities 
industries in the UK, the US and 
Europe. Jonathan’s previous roles 
included leading KPMG UK’s financial 
services internal audit services 
practice and PwC’s UK internal audit 
services practice. He also previously 
served as interim Group Head of 
Internal Audit at the Royal Bank of 
Scotland Group.
Bob Hoyt (60) 
Group Chief Legal Officer 
Bob joined HSBC as Group Chief 
Legal Officer in January 2021. He was 
previously Group General Counsel at 
Barclays from 2013 to 2020. Prior to 
that, he was General Counsel and 
Chief Regulatory Affairs Officer for 
PNC Financial Services Group. Bob 
has served as General Counsel and 
Senior Policy Adviser to the US 
Department of the Treasury under 
Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr, and as 
Special Assistant and Associate 
Counsel to the White House under 
President George W. Bush.
David Liao (52) 
Co-Chief Executive, 
Asia and Middle East
David was appointed Co-Chief 
Executive of the Asia-Pacific region in 
2021, which was expanded to cover the 
Middle East in January 2025. David, 
who joined HSBC in 1997, has held 
several senior roles during his HSBC 
career including: Head of Global 
Banking Coverage for Asia-Pacific; 
President and Chief Executive of HSBC 
China; Head of Global Banking and 
Markets, HSBC China; and Treasurer 
and Head of Global Markets, HSBC 
China. He also serves as the Chair of 
HSBC Bank (China) Company Limited, 
and as a Director of Bank of 
Communications Co., Limited and Hang 
Seng Bank Limited.
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
242
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Senior management, which includes 
the Group Operating Committee, 
effective from 1 January 2025, 
supports the Group CEO in the dayto-day management of the business 
and the implementation 
of strategy.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Barry O’Byrne (49) 
Chief Executive Officer, 
International Wealth & Premier 
Banking
Barry was appointed Chief Executive 
Officer of Wealth and Premier 
Banking in October 2024. He joined 
HSBC in 2017 firstly as Chief 
Operating Officer for Global 
Commercial Banking and became 
Chief Executive Officer in 2019. 
Before joining HSBC, Barry worked at 
GE Capital for 19 years where he held 
a number of senior leadership roles, 
including Chief Executive Officer and 
Chief Operating Officer for GE Capital 
International.
Michael Roberts (64) 
Chief Executive Officer, 
HSBC Bank plc, and Corporate 
and Institutional Banking 
Michael was appointed Chief 
Executive Officer, Corporate and 
Institutional Banking and Western 
Markets in January 2025. In this role 
he also holds the role of CEO, HSBC 
Bank plc, the Group’s non-ring-fenced 
bank. Michael previously served as 
Chief Executive Officer of HSBC US 
and Americas until December 2024. 
Prior to this he held the role of Chief 
Executive Officer of HSBC USA when 
he joined HSBC in 2019. Prior to 
joining HSBC, Michael spent over 30 
years at Citigroup in a number of 
senior leadership roles, most recently 
as Global Head of Corporate Banking 
and Capital Management and Chief 
Lending Officer.
Surendra Rosha (56) 
Co-Chief Executive, 
Asia and Middle East
Surendra was appointed Co-Chief 
Executive of the Asia-Pacific region in 
2021, which was expanded to cover 
the Middle East in January 2025. He 
is a Director of The Hongkong and 
Shanghai Banking Corporation 
Limited, HSBC Global Asset 
Management Limited and HSBC Bank 
Malaysia Berhad. Surendra joined 
HSBC in 1991 and has held several 
senior positions within Global Banking 
and Markets, including Head of Global 
Markets in Indonesia and Head of 
Institutional Sales, Asia-Pacific. He 
previously held the position of Chief 
Executive for HSBC India and Head of 
Financial Institutions Group, AsiaPacific.
John David Stuart 
(known as Ian Stuart) (61) 
Chief Executive Officer, 
HSBC UK Bank plc
Ian has been Chief Executive Officer 
of HSBC UK Bank plc, the Group’s UK 
ring-fenced bank, since 2017. He 
joined HSBC in 2014 and served as 
Head of Commercial Banking, UK and 
Europe, until taking up his current 
role. Ian has worked over 45 years in 
financial services, and previously 
worked at Bank of Scotland, NatWest, 
RBS and Barclays. Ian holds an 
Honorary Masters and Honorary 
Doctorate degree for his services to 
the banking sector. He is a member of 
the UK Finance Board, TheCityUK 
Board, the UK Investment Council and 
is a business ambassador for 
Meningitis Now.
Stuart Riley (50) 
Group Chief Information Officer
Stuart was appointed Group Chief 
Information Officer in February 2024, 
initially overseeing the Technology 
function. In October 2024, he 
assumed responsibilities for data and 
analytics, and emerging technology, 
innovation, and ventures. Prior to 
joining HSBC, Stuart was Co-Chief 
Information Officer of Citi, and 
previously held senior technology 
roles at Deutsche Bank. He has also 
held the role of Partner at TAG 
Consulting, a technology consulting 
firm. 
Suzy White (48) 
Group Chief Operating Officer
Suzy was appointed Group Chief 
Operating Officer in October 2024. 
Suzy has been with HSBC for more 
than 25 years and has held a number 
of senior leadership roles, most 
recently Chief Operating Officer for 
Global Banking and Markets. Previous 
roles included Regional Chief 
Operating Officer for Global Markets 
in the Americas, and Chief Risk 
Officer for Global Banking and 
Markets and Commercial Banking in 
the US. 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
243
Additional members of the Group 
Operating Committee
Georges Elhedery
Pam Kaur
Aileen Taylor
Other Senior Management who 
served on the Group Executive 
Committee during the year: 
– Greg Guyett, former Chief 
Executive Officer Global Banking 
and Markets stepped down as a 
Group Executive Committee 
member on 31 December 2024. He 
assumed the role of Chair, Strategic 
Clients Group on 1 January 2025.
– Elaine Arden, former Group Chief 
Human Resources Officer stepped 
down on 30 September 2024. 
– John Hinshaw, former Group Chief 
Operating Officer stepped down on 
30 September 2024.
– Nuno Matos, former Chief 
Executive Officer Wealth and 
Personal Banking stepped down on 
30 September 2024.
– Colin Bell, former Chief Executive 
Officer HSBC Bank plc and HSBC 
Europe stepped down on 
31 December 2024.
– Dr Celine Herweijer, former Group 
Chief Sustainability Officer stepped 
down on 31 December 2024. 
– Steve John, former Group Chief 
Communications and Brand Officer 
stepped down on 31 December 
2024. 
– Stephen Moss, former Regional 
Chief Executive Officer – Middle 
East, North Africa and Türkiye 
stepped down on 31 December 
2024. 
– Jonathan Bingham, Global Financial 
Controller, served on the Group 
Executive Committee as interim 
Group Chief Financial Officer from 
2 September 2024 to 31 December 
2024. 
– Jo Miyake attended meetings of 
the Group Executive Committee as 
interim CEO, Global Commercial 
Banking from 1 October 2024 to 
31 December 2024. 
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

11
9
9
7
4
4
6
9
Board and senior management diversity 
We value difference
We believe that a diverse and inclusive Board, reflective of the communities we serve, is a 
critical component of effective decision-making and of developing a sustainable and 
successful business for HSBC.
This section outlines the key inclusion metrics for Board members and executive management as at 31 December 2024. The metrics as at 1 January 
2025 have also been included to reflect changes to the Board and senior management that took effect from 1 January 2025. 
Gender and ethnic representation
In accordance with the requirements of UK Listing Rule 6.6.6 (10) the tables below outline the current gender and ethnic representation of the 
HSBC Holdings Board and executive management reflecting data gathered through self-identification.
Gender Identity
As at 31 December 2024
As at 1 January 2025
Board members
Executive 
management2
Board members
Executive 
management3
Number
%
Number of 
senior 
positions1
Number
%
Number
%
Number of 
senior 
positions1
Number
%
Male
6
 
46 
3
15
 
79 
6
 
43 
2 
10
77
Female
 
7 
54 
1 
4
 
21 
 
8 
57 
2 
3
 
23 
Other
 
— 
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
 
— 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
Not specified/prefer not to say
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
 
— 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 Ethnic Background
As at 31 December 2024
As at 1 January 2025
Board members
Executive 
management2
Board members
Executive 
management3
Number
%
Number of 
senior 
positions1
Number
%
Number
%
Number of 
senior 
positions1
Number
%
White British or other White (including 
minority-White groups)
8
 
62 
3
13
 
69 
8
 
57 
2 
9
69
Mixed/multiple ethnic groups
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
— 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
Asian/Asian British
3
 
23 
— 
4
 
21 
 
4 
29 
1 
3
 
23 
Black/African/Caribbean/Black British
 
— 
 
— 
— 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
— 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
Other ethnic groups
2
 
15 
1 
1
 
5 
 
2 
14 
1 
1
 
8 
Not specified/prefer not to say
 
— 
— 
— 
1 
5 
 
— 
— 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
1
Senior positions on the Board comprise the Group Chairman, Group CEO, Group CFO and Senior Independent non-executive Director.
2 Executive management comprises the Group Executive Committee members and the Group Head of Internal Audit.
3 Executive management comprises the Group Operating Committee members and the Group Head of Internal Audit.
Skills and experience
As it is essential to the effective governance of the Group, and the 
Board’s oversight and challenge of management, the Board ensures 
that collectively and individually, the Board possess the necessary 
skills, knowledge, expertise and experience.
The summary provides an overview of the skills and experiences held 
by the non-executive Directors on the Board. This is based on the 
current skills matrix, which is reviewed annually by the Nomination & 
Corporate Governance Committee to ensure that the Board has the 
skills and experience required to effectively discharge its duties and to 
support succession planning discussions. The skills and experiences 
of the newly appointed non-executive Directors are also included in 
the summary.
1 Corporate Social Responsibility ('CSR')
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
244
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Banking
Finance
Risk
Customer
Digital technology
CSR
1/ESG
Direct Asia market experience
Global business experience

--- PAGE BREAK ---

How we are governed
We are committed to high standards of corporate governance. The 
Group has in place a comprehensive range of policies and procedures, 
which are reviewed on a regular basis, designed to help ensure that 
the Group’s end-to-end governance is well managed, with effective 
oversight and controls.
Governance highlights 2024
Appointment of new Group 
CEO
 Read more on pages 22 and 259 
to 262
Appointment of new Group CFO
 Read more on pages 22, and 259 
to 262
Governance simplification 
 Read more on pages 22 and 249
Oversight of organisational 
changes
 Read more on pages 22 to 23
Establishment of new Board 
Sustainability Working Group
 Read more on pages 23, 74 and 
249
Establishment of Group 
Technology and Operations 
Committee
 Read more on pages 249 and 
276 to 278
Active stakeholder engagement
 Read more on pages 20 to 23
Revised Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy 
 Read more from page 279
Board and executive governance
The Board, led by the Group Chairman, is responsible for, among 
other matters:
–
promoting the Group’s long-term success and delivering
sustainable value to shareholders;
–
establishing and approving the Group’s strategy and objectives,
and monitoring the alignment of the Group’s purpose, strategy and
values with the desired culture and standards;
–
setting the Group’s risk appetite and monitoring the Group’s risk
profile;
–
approving and monitoring capital and financial resource plans for
achieving strategic objectives, including material transactions;
–
considering and approving the Group’s technology and
environmental, social and governance strategies;
–
reviewing the effectiveness of stakeholder engagement
mechanisms, including engagement with the workforce;
–
approving the appointment and remuneration of Directors,
including Board roles;
–
reviewing the Group’s overall corporate governance arrangements;
and
–
providing entrepreneurial leadership of the Group within a
framework of prudent and effective controls, which enable risks to
be assessed and managed.
A schedule of matters reserved to the Board is set out within its 
terms of reference, which are available on our website at 
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-people/board-of-directors/boardresponsibilities. The Board’s powers are subject to relevant laws, 
regulations and HSBC’s articles of association.
The role of the independent non-executive Directors is to support the 
development of strategy, oversee risk, hold management to account 
and ensure the executive Directors are discharging their 
responsibilities properly, while creating the right culture to encourage 
constructive challenge. Further details on the independence of the 
Board can be found on page 321. Non-executive Directors also review 
the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and 
objectives. The Group Chairman meets with the non-executive 
Directors without the executive Directors in attendance after Board 
meetings and otherwise, as necessary. 
The roles of Group Chairman and Group CEO are held by two 
different individuals. There is a clear division of responsibilities 
between the leadership of the Board by the Group Chairman, and the 
executive responsibility for day-to-day management of HSBC’s 
business undertaken by the Group CEO. 
The majority of Board members are independent non-executive 
Directors. As at 31 December 2024, the Board comprised the Group 
Chairman, 11 non-executive Directors, and one executive Director 
who is the Group CEO. From 1 January 2025, the newly appointed 
Group CFO will be an executive Director. 
For further details of Board members’ career backgrounds, skills, experience 
and external appointments, see their biographies on page 237, and for a 
breakdown of the diversity and skills of the Board and senior management, 
see page 244.
Operation of the Board 
The Board is ordinarily scheduled to meet nine times a year. In 2024, 
the Board held 10 meetings. For further details on attendance at 
those meetings, see page 246. The Board agenda is agreed by the 
Group Chairman, working with both the Group CEO and the Group 
Company Secretary. For further information, see ’Board matters 
considered’ on page 251.
The Group Chief People & Governance Officer (who is also the duly 
appointed Group Company Secretary), the Group Chief Risk and 
Compliance Officer and the Group Chief Legal Officer were regular 
attendees at Board meetings during 2024. The non-executive 
Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
Limited was also a regular attendee at Board meetings. The chief 
executive officers of the three global businesses often attended 
Board strategy discussions, and other senior executives attended 
Board meetings for specific items as and when requested by the 
Board.
In addition, as agreed by the Board, the Board Oversight Sub-Group is 
called on an ad hoc basis where necessary. Such meetings are an 
informal mechanism for a smaller group of Board members and 
management to discuss emerging issues and upcoming Board 
matters. 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
245
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Board roles, responsibilities and meeting attendance
The table below sets out the Board members’ respective roles, responsibilities and attendance at Board meetings and the AGM in 2024. For a 
full description of key Board members’ responsibilities, see www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-people.
Roles
Board 
attendance in 
20241
Responsibilities
Group Chairman
Sir Mark E Tucker2,4
11/11
– Provides effective leadership of the Board and promotes the highest standards of corporate governance practices.
– Leads the Board in providing strong strategic oversight and setting the Board’s agenda, culture and values.
– Leads the Board in challenging management’s thinking and proposals, and fosters open and constructive debate 
among Directors.
– Maintains internal and external relationships with key stakeholders, and communicates investors’ views to the 
Board.
– Organises periodic monitoring and evaluation, including externally facilitated evaluation, of the performance of the 
Board, its committees and individual Directors.
– Leads on succession planning for the Board and its committees, ensuring appointments reflect diverse cultures, 
skills and experiences.
Executive Director
Group CEO
Sir Noel Quinn4,6
Georges Elhedery4,6,7
7/7
4/4
– Leads and directs the fulfilment of the Group’s purpose and strategy, in alignment with the desired culture and 
values as set by the Board.
– Leads the senior executive committee with responsibility for the day-to-day leadership and management of the 
Group, in accordance with the authority delegated to him from the Board.
– Maintains effective relationships with key internal and external stakeholders including the Group Chairman, the 
Board, customers, regulators, governments and investors.
– Maintains accountability for the Group’s compliance with applicable laws, codes, rules and regulations, good 
market practice and HSBC’s own standards, value and policies.
Executive Director
Group CFO
Georges Elhedery4,6,7 
Jonathan Bingham7
7/7
4/4
– Supports the Group CEO in developing and implementing the Group strategy, and recommends the annual budget 
and long-term strategic and financial resource plan.
– Leads the Finance function and is responsible for effective financial and regulatory reporting, including the 
effectiveness of the processes and controls, to ensure the financial control framework is robust and fit for 
purpose.
– Maintains relationships with key stakeholders including shareholders.
Non-executive Director
Senior Independent 
Director
David Nish3,4,,5 
Ann Godbehere3,4,5 
5/5
11/11
– Supports the Group Chairman, acting as intermediary for non-executive Directors when necessary.
– Leads the non-executive Directors in the oversight of the Group Chairman, supporting the clear division of 
responsibility between the Group Chairman and the Group CEO.
– Listens to shareholders’ views if they have concerns that cannot be resolved through the normal channels.
Non-executive Directors
– Develop and approve the Group strategy.
– Challenge and oversee the performance of management in achieving agreed corporate goals and objectives.
– Approve the Group’s risk appetite and review risk profile and performance.
– Contribute to the assessment and monitoring of culture.
– Maintain internal and external relationships with the Group’s key stakeholders.
Geraldine Buckingham3,4
11/11
Rachel Duan3,4,8
10/11
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn3,4
11/11
James Forese3,4
11/11
Steven Guggenheimer3,4
11/11
Dr José Antonio Meade 
Kuribreña3,4
11/11
Kalpana Morparia3,4
11/11
Eileen Murray3,4,8
10/11
Brendan Nelson3,4
11/11
Swee Lian Teo3,4
11/11
Group Chief People & 
Governance Officer
(duly appointed Group 
Company Secretary)
Aileen Taylor
– Maintains strong and consistent governance practices at Board level and throughout the Group.
– Supports the Group Chairman in ensuring effective functioning of the Board and its committees, and transparent 
engagement between senior management and non-executive Directors.
– Facilitates induction and professional development of non-executive Directors.
– Advises and supports the Board and management in ensuring effective end-to-end governance and decision 
making across the Group.
1 The total number of meetings comprises nine scheduled meetings, one ad hoc meeting and the AGM.
2 The non-executive Group Chairman was considered to be independent on appointment.
3 Independent non-executive Director. All of the non-executive Directors are considered to be independent. There are no relationships or circumstances that are 
likely to affect any individual non-executive Director’s objective judgement. All non-executive Directors have confirmed their independence during the year.
4 Attended the AGM on 3 May 2024. Kalpana Morparia attended virtually.
5 David Nish retired from the Board with effect from 3 May 2024 and was succeeded as the Board’s senior independent non-executive Director on that date by 
Ann Godbehere.
6 Sir Noel Quinn retired from the Board with effect from 2 September 2024 and was succeeded as Group CEO on that date by Georges Elhedery.
7 Georges Elhedery stepped down from his role as Group CFO with effect from 2 September 2024 and Jonathan Bingham was appointed interim Group CFO on 
that date. Jonathan Bingham was not appointed as an executive Director. From 1 January 2025, Pam Kaur was appointed as an executive Director and assumed 
the role of Group CFO.
8 Due to prior commitments, Eileen Murray was unable to attend the Board meeting in September 2024 and Rachel Duan was unable to attend the ad hoc Board 
meeting held in October 2024.
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
246
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Relationship between the Board and 
senior management 
The Board delegates day-to-day management of the business and 
implementation of strategy to the Group CEO. During the year, the 
incumbent Group CEO was supported in his management of the 
Group by recommendations and advice from the Group Executive 
Committee (’GEC’), an executive forum comprising members of 
senior management that included chief executive officers of the 
global businesses and regions, as well as functional heads. With 
effect from 1 January 2025, the Group CEO is supported in his role by 
the Group Operating Committee (‘Group OpCo’) in place of the GEC. 
The Group CEO reports to the Board on Group OpCo meetings' 
outcomes and other executive matters of note relevant for the Board. 
For further details of the senior management team, see page 242. 
All Directors are encouraged to have contact with management at all 
levels and have full access to management information as may be 
required. Visits to local business operations and meetings with local 
management are arranged for the non-executive Directors, alongside 
the executive Directors, when they attend Board meetings in different 
locations, and when travelling for other reasons. Senior management 
often attend Directors’ engagements and receive updates from the 
workforce engagement non-executive Director, José Meade. For 
further details, see ’The Board's engagement with the workforce’ on 
page 254. 
Executive governance
Throughout 2024, the GEC promoted the culture, as led and overseen 
by the Board, across the organisation by demonstrating the right tone 
from the top. The GEC modelled our values through their everyday 
behaviours, fostering a culture that delivered against our purpose of 
opening up a world of opportunity. At its meetings, the GEC 
dedicated time to reflect on how they had demonstrated our purpose 
and values in the day-to-day course of business.
The GEC’s operating rhythm helped to facilitate end-to-end 
governance between senior leadership and the Board. The operating 
rhythm had the following three pillars:
–
regular check-in meetings to review and discuss current and 
emerging trends and issues;
–
a monthly meeting to review the performance of each of the 
global businesses in principal geographies and legal entities, 
supported by strategic key performance indicators; and
–
a strategy- and governance-focused meeting, held in advance of 
each Board meeting.
Separate committees have been established to provide specialist 
oversight for matters delegated to the Group CEO and senior 
management. For further details of these committees, see page 249.
To further support our senior management, we have dedicated 
company secretaries and corporate governance officers who support 
and advise legal entities, global businesses and global functions on 
our corporate governance practices. These roles serve to strengthen 
the consistency and effectiveness of our end-to-end governance 
arrangements, and support connectivity and information sharing.
From 1 January 2025 the GEC has been replaced by the Group 
Operating Committee (‘Group OpCo’), whose key focus has been 
establishing clear lines of accountability and enabling the Group to 
execute our strategy at pace. 
The Group OpCo serves as the leading executive decision-making 
committee and supports the Group CEO in discharging his 
responsibilities for the management and delivery of Group strategy.
In support of the ambition to simplify HSBC, the Nomination & 
Corporate Governance Committee endorsed a new Group 
Governance Framework and Operating Rhythm, which will be 
implemented throughout the organisation in 2025.
Subsidiary governance
We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate 
governance throughout the Group. All subsidiary boards and their 
respective businesses are required to have in place effective 
governance arrangements with regard to the businesses’ nature, size, 
location and the sectors in which they operate.
The subsidiary accountability 
framework
The subsidiary accountability framework aims to balance appropriate 
governance oversight by the Group with each subsidiary’s local legal 
and regulatory requirements. The framework supports the Group in 
promoting effective governance arrangements across its subsidiaries 
by: 
–
setting out high-level principles to enhance communications and 
connectivity; and 
–
ensuring a shared and consistent understanding of the Group’s 
strategic objectives, culture and values.
The subsidiary accountability framework also focuses on ensuring that 
each subsidiary is led by an effective board with an appropriate 
balance of skills, diversity, experience and knowledge, having regard 
to the nature of the subsidiary’s business and local legal and 
regulatory requirements. Board composition of the Group’s 
subsidiaries is kept under review as part of succession planning. The 
Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee reviews the 
succession plans of principal subsidiaries, and principal subsidiaries 
review the succession plans for their own subsidiaries, as appropriate. 
The framework is subject to periodic review by the Board and/or the 
Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee and updated as 
required to ensure it is aligned to regulatory requirements and best 
practices. A comprehensive internal review of the framework was 
undertaken in 2024 with the outputs reported to the Nomination & 
Corporate Governance Committee. A number of improvements were 
made to the framework to provide greater clarity and additional 
guidance for subsidiaries. 
The role of principal subsidiaries
Certain subsidiaries are designated formally by the Board as principal 
subsidiaries. In addition to their obligations under their respective local 
laws and regulations, principal subsidiaries – supported by regional 
company secretaries – perform a critical role in ensuring effective and 
high standards of governance across the Group and in overseeing the 
implementation of the subsidiary accountability framework in the 
regions for which they are responsible.
Representatives from principal subsidiaries attend the Board and its 
committee meetings for relevant topics, including when the Board 
holds meetings outside of the UK. Chairs of principal subsidiaries’ risk 
and audit committees are invited to attend relevant Group Risk 
Committee and Group Audit Committee meetings. Attendance and 
participation at these meetings enhances subsidiary directors’ 
understanding of the challenges facing the Group and helps to identify 
common challenges and facilitates the sharing of lessons learned. 
Such committee participation supplements the regular reports, 
certifications and escalations from principal subsidiaries’ boards and 
their respective committees to the Board and relevant committee(s) 
of the Board. 
The Group Chairman interacts regularly with the chairs of the principal 
subsidiaries, including through the Chairman’s Forum. The Chairman’s 
Forum comprises the chairs of each of the principal subsidiaries, the 
Group’s senior independent non-executive Director, the chairs of the 
Group’s audit, risk and remuneration committees, and where relevant, 
the Group CEO, other non-executive Directors and members of 
executive management, advisers and/or external experts. 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
247
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

In 2024, the Chairman’s Forum covered topics such as strategic 
business considerations, geopolitical issues and economic outlook, 
shareholder engagements, Group-wide connectivity of non-executive 
Directors, key regulatory themes, employee engagement and financial 
performance.
The Group Remuneration Committee Chair hosted dedicated forums 
with the chairs of principal subsidiaries to share key priorities for 2024 
and the future. These sessions provided an opportunity for review and 
input on proposed pay outcomes and allocation, before approval by 
the Group Remuneration Committee.
The principal subsidiaries are:
Principal subsidiary
Oversight responsibility
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited
Asia-Pacific
HSBC Bank plc
Europe and Bermuda (excluding 
UK ring-fenced activities)
HSBC UK Bank plc
UK ring-fenced bank and its 
subsidiaries
HSBC Middle East Holdings BV
Middle East, North Africa and 
Türkiye
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
US
HSBC Latin America Holdings (UK) 
Limited
Mexico and Latin America
Subsidiary director development
The Group is dedicated to supporting the continuing professional 
development of its subsidiary directors. A global non-executive 
director update was held in September 2024, which was attended by 
subsidiary non-executive directors from across the Group. Updates 
were provided by the Group Chairman and Group CEO, along with 
presentations on net zero transition, digital acceleration, AI and 
geopolitics.
The Bank Director Programme (launched in 2022), is designed to 
prepare HSBC executives and senior managers to assume roles as 
internal non-executive directors on our subsidiary boards. The 
programme covers six modules: governance and the role of a bank 
director; finance, capital and liquidity management; risk and 
regulation; strategy, leadership and culture; ESG and managing 
stakeholders; and technology and operations. The programme was 
delivered for a second time in 2024 to a cohort of 26 participants 
selected from across the Group. Many of those colleagues who have 
completed the programme have already taken up positions as internal 
non-executive directors on Group subsidiary boards. 
During 2024 we launched our inaugural Bank Chair Programme with a 
group of subsidiary board and committee chairs from across our 
regions. The programme represents a significant investment in 
subsidiary director development and is sponsored by the Group 
Chairman together with the Group Chief People & Governance 
Officer. It is a unique and forward-looking initiative, focused on 
developing our ‘chairs of the future‘ and equipping them to lead ‘bestin-class’ subsidiary boards and committees at HSBC. Part one of the 
programme was delivered in November 2024 and comprised three 
modules covering: the challenges faced by board and committee 
chairs; the evolving role of the chair; and navigating regulatory 
priorities.
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
248
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Board and Group executive committees and working groups
The Board delegates oversight of certain audit, risk, remuneration, 
nomination, technology and governance matters to its committees, 
which are each chaired by a non-executive Director. Only the Group 
Chairman and the independent non-executive Directors are members 
of Board committees. Members of the senior management team 
attend Board committee meetings, as appropriate. Details of the 
responsibilities and work carried out by each of the Board committees 
can be found in the respective committee reports starting on page 
259.
The Chairman’s Committee is an ad hoc committee, which provides 
the Board with the opportunity to consider time-critical matters 
between scheduled Board meetings. All Board members are invited 
to attend Chairman’s Committee meetings.
In addition to the Board committees, bespoke working groups have 
been established as an informal mechanism for smaller groups of 
Board members and senior management to meet to discuss 
emerging issues and upcoming Board matters, as appropriate. 
The GEC established a number of committees to support the senior 
management during 2024 in their running of the business and provide 
specialist oversight for matters delegated to them, including capital 
and liquidity, risk management, disclosure and financial reporting, 
restructuring and investment considerations, transformation 
oversight, ESG matters and talent and development. These 
committees also help fulfil their responsibilities under the Senior 
Managers and Certification Regime.
The structure below sets out the current committees and working 
groups at the Board and Group Executive level as at 31 December 
2024. The key changes in the year include:
The Board Sustainability Working Group (‘SWG‘) was established, 
with effect from October 2024, to enhance the Board’s oversight of 
sustainability matters. For more information on the role and function 
of this working group please refer to ‘Board decision-making and 
engagement with stakeholders‘ on page 23. 
On 25 January 2024, the Board approved that the Technology 
Working Group be demised and, in its place, established the creation 
of the Group Technology Committee (‘GTC’), effective from March 
2024. The GTC was delegated responsibility to oversee the Group’s 
technology strategy and its alignment with the wider global strategy 
of the Group. In December 2024, the remit of the GTC (renamed the 
Group Technology and Operations Committee (‘GTOC‘)) was 
extended to cover oversight of global operations.
The Board also approved a proposal from the Group CEO to combine 
the Group‘s executive level ESG Committee and Sustainability 
Execution Committee, with effect from October 2024. For more 
information on this Committee please refer to ‘Board matters 
considered on page 251‘.
In addition, the Board approved that the GEC of 18 members be 
simplified and replaced by a new Group Operating Committee 
comprised of 12 members, with effect from 1 January 2025 
(www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-people/senior-management).
Board Chair: Sir Mark Tucker
Chairman’s 
Committee 
Nomination & 
Corporate 
Governance 
Committee
Group Audit 
Committee
Group Risk 
Committee
Group 
Remuneration 
Committee
Group Technology 
and Operations 
Committee
Informal 
Governance
Chair: Sir Mark 
Tucker
Chair: Sir Mark 
Tucker
Chair: Brendan 
Nelson
Chair: James 
Forese
Chair: Dame 
Carolyn Fairbairn
Chair: Eileen Murray
Board Oversight 
Sub-Group 
Chair: Sir Mark 
Tucker
 See page 259
 See page 263
 See page 271
 See page 279
 See page 276
Sustainability 
Working Group 
Chair: Geraldine 
Buckingham
Group Executive Committee Chair: Georges Elhedery1
Acquisitions and 
Disposals 
Committee
Group Disclosure 
and Controls 
Committee
Group People 
Committee
Group Risk 
Management 
Meeting
Holdings Asset 
and Liabilities 
Committee
Change 
Prioritisation and 
Oversight 
Committee
Environmental, 
Social and 
Governance 
Committee
 Chair: Georges 
Elhedery
Chair: Jonathan 
Bingham2
Chair: Aileen 
Taylor
Chair: Pam Kaur3
Chair: Jonathan 
Bingham2
Chair: Jonathan 
Bingham2
Co-Chairs: 
Jonathan Bingham 
and Celine 
Herweijer4
1 With effect from 2 September 2024, the role of Chair changed from Sir Noel Quinn to Georges Elhedery and with effect from 1 January 2025 the GEC was 
replaced by the Group Operating Committee and committees reporting into it are under review.
2 Pam Kaur appointed as Chair with effect from 1 January 2025.
3 Richard Blackburn appointed as Chair with effect from 1 January 2025. 
4 With effect from 2 September 2024, Jonathan Bingham succeeded Georges Elhedery as Co-Chair and Pam Kaur appointed as sole Chair with effect from 
1 January 2025. 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
249
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Board induction and training
The Board recognises the importance of induction and training for its 
Directors. The Group Chief People & Governance Officer works with 
the Group Chairman to ensure that, on appointment, new Directors 
are provided with tailored and comprehensive induction programmes 
appropriate to their individual experiences and needs, including the 
process for managing conflicts. To ensure Directors’ contribution to 
the Board remains informed and relevant, all Board members receive 
appropriate training, both individually and collectively, throughout their 
time served on the Board. 
The Group Chief People & Governance Officer also helps to arrange 
and deliver the induction programme for new Board members, 
through formal briefings and introductory sessions with other Board 
members, senior management, legal counsel, auditors, tax advisers 
and regulators, as appropriate. Topics covered in the induction 
programme include but are not limited to: purpose and values; culture 
and leadership; governance and stakeholder management; Directors’ 
legal and regulatory duties; recovery and resolution planning; antimoney laundering and anti-bribery; technical and business briefings; 
and strategy.
The induction process is often initiated before appointment to allow 
each new Board member to contribute meaningfully from 
appointment. The structure of the induction supports good 
information flows within the Board and its committees, as well as 
between senior management and non-executive Directors, providing 
a clear understanding of our culture and way of operating. 
Prior to his appointment as Group CEO becoming effective, Georges 
Elhedery received relevant training and legal advice from a firm of 
solicitors on 15 August 2024. Prior to her appointment as Group CFO, 
Pam Kaur received relevant training and legal advice from a firm of 
solicitors on 11 December 2024. 
Following this training, both Georges Elhedery and Pam Kaur 
confirmed their understanding of their obligations as directors of a 
listed issuer pursuant to Rule 3.09D of the Hong Kong Listing Rules. 
The approach to training is agreed annually, with key topics agreed for 
2024 including cybersecurity, media interaction and the UK’s Senior 
Manager and Certification Regime. Training sessions were facilitated 
by both internal subject matter experts and by external presenters. 
Directors were also issued with training modules, which mirrored the 
mandatory training undertaken by employees. During 2024, this 
training covered topics including risk management, sustainability, 
health and safety, well-being, cyber-security, financial crime, and 
conduct.
Non-executive Directors also discussed individual development areas 
with the Group Chairman as part of their ongoing performance 
discussions regarding their contributions on the Board. The Group 
Chief People & Governance Officer makes appropriate arrangements 
for any additional training needs identified using internal resources, or 
otherwise, at HSBC’s expense.
Members of Board committees receive relevant training as 
appropriate. Further details on any specific training commissioned by 
Board committees can be found in the respective committee reports 
from page 259 onward. Directors may take independent professional 
advice at HSBC’s expense.
Board Directors who serve on principal subsidiary boards receive 
training that is pertinent to circumstances and context relevant to 
those boards. Opportunities exist for the principal subsidiaries' 
committee chairs to share their understanding of specific areas with 
the Directors as part of the Chairman’s Forum. For further details, see 
’The role of principal subsidiaries’ on page 247.
Directors’ induction and ongoing development in 2024
Director
Induction
Strategy and 
business briefings2
Risk and
control3
Corporate 
governance, ESG 
and other 
reporting matters4
Board global 
mandatory 
training5
Geraldine Buckingham
u
u
u
u
u
Rachel Duan
u
u
u
u
u
Georges Elhedery1
u
u
u
u
u
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn
u
u
u
u
u
James Forese
u
u
u
u
u
Ann Godbehere
u
u
u
u
u
Steven Guggenheimer
u
u
u
u
u
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña
u
u
u
u
u
Kalpana Morparia
u
u
u
u
u
Eileen Murray
u
u
u
u
u
Brendan Nelson
u
u
u
u
u
Swee Lian Teo
u
u
u
u
u
Sir Mark Tucker
u
u
u
u
u
u Matter considered
u Matter not considered
1 As part of the transition from Group CFO to Group CEO, Georges Elhedery completed an induction and development plan. 
2 Directors participated in business strategy, market development and business briefings, which are global, regional and/or market-specific. Examples of specific 
sessions held in 2024 included: ’Technology and the future of artificial intelligence’, ’WPB customer-centricity improvement plan’, and ’Investor sentiments’.
3 Directors received risk and control training and briefings. Examples of specific sessions held in 2024 included: ’Cybersecurity’ and ’The UK’s Senior Manager 
Certification Regime’.
4 Directors received training on the UK’s Senior Managers’ and Certification Regime as well as development updates at Board meetings on: ’Board stakeholder 
engagement and management’ and ESG matters including regulatory changes. Directors received additional training through their attendance at forums such as 
the Chairman’s Forum, Remuneration Committee Chairs’ Forum and the Global Non-Executive Director Update.
5 Training modules, issued to all Directors, mirrored training undertaken by employees. This included: risk management, sustainability, health and safety, wellbeing, cybersecurity, financial crime and conduct and values, personal conflicts of interest, data quality, privacy and security and AI and our changing world.
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
250
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Board matters considered
During 2024, the Board remained focused on HSBC’s strategic direction and delivery, and overseeing Group performance. It considered 
performance against financial and other strategic objectives, key business challenges, emerging risks, sustainability and governance, business 
development, investor relations and the Group’s relationships with its stakeholders. The end-to-end governance framework facilitated discussion 
on strategy and performance by each of the global businesses and across the principal geographical areas, which enabled the Board to support 
executive management with its delivery of the Group’s strategy. The Board considers the impacts of its decision making on the Group’s 
stakeholders and examples of how the Board has taken principal strategic decisions.
Board matters considered in 2024
Meetings at which topics were discussed1
Main topic
Sub-topic
Jan
Feb
Mar
May
Jun
Jul
Sep
Oct
Nov
Dec
Strategy
Group strategy
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Regional strategy/global business strategy
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Environmental, social and governance strategies
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Business and financial 
performance
Region/global business
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Financial performance
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Financial
Results and accounts1
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Dividends
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Group financial resource planning
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Risk
Risk update
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Risk appetite
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Capital and liquidity adequacy
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Regulatory
Regulatory and legal matters2 
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Regulatory matters with regulators in attendance3
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
External
External insights4
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Technology
Strategic and operational
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
People and culture
Purpose, values and engagement 
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Governance
Policies, terms of reference and delegations of 
authority
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Board/committee effectiveness
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Appointments and conflicts of interest
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Stakeholder/workforce engagement
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
AGM and resolutions
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u Matter considered
u Matter not considered
1 No Board meetings were held during April and August 2024. An ad hoc board meeting was held in October 2024.
2 Includes recovery and resolution planning, modern slavery and human trafficking, UK regulatory activities, and listing authority renewals.
3 Meetings attended by members of the Prudential Regulation Authority.
4 Includes presentations and/or talks from external parties, for example government officials or regulators.
Key areas of focus
The Board’s key areas of focus in 2024 are set out by theme below.
Strategy and business performance
The Group remains focused on building a sustainable platform for 
growth by increasing returns for investors, enhancing customer 
service, and creating capacity for future investment. In 2024, the 
Board reviewed progress within the Group’s global businesses and 
regions against its agreed strategy. At each Board meeting, the Board 
discussed the Group’s strategic performance and opportunities to 
track strategic execution and delivery.
There was a continued focus in 2024 to build upon efforts to re-shape 
the Group to align with areas of strength in key markets. Disposals 
such as those completed in Canada and Argentina, and in progress in 
Germany, allow for a renewed focus on businesses that more closely 
align with the Group’s strategic aims, and support resource allocation 
to provide the strongest competitive advantage to ultimately benefit 
the wider Group and its customers. 
Upon his appointment, the new Group CEO has been driving a more 
dynamic organisational structure, to set the Group up to accelerate 
delivery of its strategic objectives and drive the next phase of its 
growth and development. Together, the executive team and the 
Board work to ensure that strategic decisions taken capitalise on 
opportunities that will work to drive profitability for shareholders and 
efficiencies with a more streamlined Group structure.
Environmental, social and governance
In October 2020, we announced our ambition to become a net zero 
bank by 2050. We believe supporting our customers’ transition 
benefits their businesses and helps generate long-term financial 
returns for our shareholders.
The Board has overall responsibility for ESG strategy, overseeing 
executive management in developing the approach, execution, and 
associated reporting. To support senior leadership in the delivery of 
the ESG strategy, with effect from October 2024, the Board 
established a new sustainability working group, the SWG, comprised 
of five non-executive Directors. This working group engages with 
executive management on sustainability matters and provides 
oversight and guidance in relation to the Group’s sustainability 
activities. The SWG was actively involved in the consideration of our 
approach to net zero transition, covered in more detail within our ESG 
overview on page 15.
During the year, the Board also oversaw the rationalisation of the ESG 
Committee and Sustainability Execution Committee into a single 
governance body (named the ESG Committee). These Board and 
executive level governance forums support senior management in the 
operationalisation of the Group’s sustainability strategy, through the 
oversight of the sustainability execution programme. For further 
details see page 74. In 2024, the Board oversaw the implementation 
of ESG strategy through regular dashboard reports and detailed 
updates including: review and approval of the net zero transition plan; 
deep dives on the sustainability execution programme; and updates 
on human rights.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
251
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Financial decisions
The Board and its dedicated committees approved key financial 
decisions throughout the year, including the Annual Report and 
Accounts 2023, the Interim Report 2024 and the first quarter and the 
third quarter Earnings Releases. In January 2024, the Board approved 
the 2024 financial resource plan. The Board monitored the Group’s 
performance against the approved plan, as well as the plans of each 
of the global businesses. The Board also approved the renewal of the 
various debt issuance programmes. 
As previously communicated, we established and achieved a target 
dividend payout ratio of 50% of earnings per ordinary share (’EPS’) for 
2023 and 2024, excluding the special dividend. EPS for this purpose 
excludes material notable items and related impacts. Material notable 
items in 2023 and 2024 included the sale of our businesses in Canada 
and Argentina, the sale of our retail banking operations in France, the 
gain following the acquisition of SVB UK and the impairment of our 
investment in BoCom. We also exclude HSBC Bank Canada‘s 
financial results from the 30 June 2022 net asset reference date until 
completion on 29 March 2024, as the gain on sale was recognised 
through a combination of the consolidation of HSBC Bank Canada‘s 
results in the Group‘s results since this date, and the remaining gain 
on sale recognised at completion, inclusive of the recycling of related 
reserves and fair value gains on related hedges. The Board has 
adopted a dividend policy designed to provide sustainable cash 
dividends, while retaining the flexibility to invest and grow the 
business in the future, supplemented by additional shareholder 
distributions, if appropriate. The Board has established a target 
dividend payout ratio of 50% for 2025, subject to meeting capital 
requirements. In addition to dividend payments, HSBC announced a 
share buy-back of up to $2bn on 22 February 2024 and further share 
buy-backs of up to $3bn on 7 May 2024, 1 August 2024 and 
30 October 2024, bringing the total announced during 2024 to $11bn.
On 21 February 2024, an interim dividend of $0.31 per share for the 
2023 full-year was announced, followed by a special dividend of $0.21 
per share on 30 April 2024 and interim dividends of $0.10 each 
announced on 30 April 2024, 31 July 2024 and 29 October 2024. For 
further details of dividend payments, see page 439.
Risk, regulatory and legal 
considerations
The Board, advised by the Group Risk Committee, promotes a strong 
risk governance culture that shapes the Group’s risk appetite and 
supports the maintenance of a strong risk management framework, 
giving consideration to the measurement, evaluation, acceptance and 
management of risks, including emerging risks.
The Board considered the Group’s approach to risk including its 
regulatory obligations. A number of key frameworks, control 
documents, core processes and legal responsibilities were also 
reviewed and approved as required by the Board and/or its relevant 
committees. These included:
–
the Group’s risk appetite framework and risk appetite statement;
–
the individual liquidity adequacy assessment process;
–
the individual capital adequacy assessment process;
–
the Group’s obligations under the Modern Slavery Act and
approval of the Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement;
–
the Group Recovery Plan;
–
the efficacy of Model Risk Management (’MRM’) activities within
the Bank;
–
the Group’s risk data aggregation and risk reporting framework
aligned to the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 239
Principles;
–
the Group’s PRA Operational Resilience self-assessment
regulatory submission;
–
the internal controls framework; and
–
the revised matters reserved to the Board and terms of reference
for the Board committees.
The Board also reviewed and monitored the implications of 
geopolitical and macroeconomic developments during the year, both 
directly and by way of updates from the Group Risk Committee, and 
received regular updates on the Group’s risk profile, including in 
relation to financial crime risk.
Technology
Throughout the year, the Board received updates on technology and 
innovation from the Group Chief Operating Officer and Group Chief 
Information Officer. These included regular updates on the 
programme established to simplify the Group’s technology 
infrastructure, enhance system resilience, and accelerate digital 
transformation across the bank, following recommendations from the 
third-party review of technology strategy conducted in 2023.
The Technology Governance Working Group was demised on 
1 March 2024, and the Group Technology Committee (‘GTC‘) became 
effective from the same date. Since its establishment, the GTC has 
supported the Board in overseeing execution of the technology 
strategy with a focus on areas where technology is fundamental to 
strategic delivery including technology architecture, innovation, data 
and cybersecurity. In December 2024, the remit of the GTC (renamed 
the Group Technology and Operations Committee (‘GTOC‘)) was 
extended to cover oversight of global operations, reflecting changes 
to the Group’s organisational structure and in recognition of the 
importance of operations to delivery of the Group’s strategy. The 
Board received regular updates from the Chair of GTOC during the 
year. For further details of matters considered at GTOC, refer to the 
Group Technology and Operations Committee Report on page 276.
People and culture
The Board is responsible for setting and monitoring the desired 
culture of the Group and dedicates time to people and culture related 
matters at Board and Committee meetings and in its engagements 
with management and the wider workforce. 
Each scheduled Board meeting begins with a ’culture moment’, 
which helps to ensure that the right cultural tone is set from the top 
and establishes the right cultural context for Board discussion. To help 
raise its awareness of employee and other stakeholder perspectives, 
Board meetings and dedicated reports feature insights into 
behaviours within the Group, which demonstrate alignment to its 
purpose and values. Board papers highlight relevant stakeholder 
considerations, including in connection with its workforce. The Board 
also gains valuable cultural insights through its many personal 
interactions with the workforce and other stakeholders. For further 
details see ‘Directors’ engagements with key stakeholders in 2024’ 
on page 20.
Additionally, the Board receives cultural insights from the allemployee Snapshot survey and broader reporting, which provides key 
data indicators, including on peoples' behaviours, sentiment and 
business outcomes. Following her appointment as Group Chief 
People & Governance Officer, Aileen Taylor has also introduced a new 
people and governance report that will be presented to the Board on a 
regular basis to help ensure that they have sight over such matters 
within the Group. 
The governance structure supporting the Board further facilitates 
effective oversight of key people and culture matters. Through the 
work of the Group Audit Committee, the Board monitors the nature of 
risk and control culture across the Group and sees the impact of its 
policies and practices and how they are embedded, through reports 
on matters such as whistleblowing, code of conduct breaches and 
investigations (for further information see the Group Audit Committee 
report on page 263). 
The Directors also learn about people and culture matters by way of 
presentations at the Chairman’s Forum. The principal subsidiary chairs 
report on their respective approaches to workforce engagement as 
well as what they have learned from such engagements and other 
cultural insights. 
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
252
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Each of the non-executive Directors is aligned to one or more of our 
Group Employee Resource Groups (’ERGs’): Ability, Balance, 
Embrace, Generations, Nurture and Pride. Attending ERG events 
provides Directors with opportunities to hear directly from employees 
on matters of cultural importance to the Group. Board engagement 
with management and the wider workforce continued to remain a 
strong area of attention, particularly with the ongoing activities carried 
out by the dedicated workforce engagement non-executive Director 
and in respect of the changes to the Group’s leadership. For further 
details of the work carried out by the workforce engagement nonexecutive Director, see page 254.
Governance
During the year, the Board continued to oversee the overall 
governance of the Group. There are processes in place to ensure that 
the Board and its Committees receive timely and relevant information 
pertaining to Group governance matters and that this information is 
duly considered at the appropriate level. The Board allocated time at 
its scheduled meetings for Group governance matters and, during the 
year, these included regular reports on the activities of its 
Committees, reviews of Directors’ conflicts of interest, the review 
and approval of delegations of authority for specific Treasury matters 
and review of the broader Group Delegated Authority Framework, and 
oversight of the Board’s annual effectiveness review. 
The Board has due regard to its oversight of Group governance, 
including compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and 
the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code and the duties of 
directors under the Companies Act 2006, when taking decisions. For 
examples of Board decision making, see ’Board decision making and 
engagement with stakeholders’ on page 20.
The Board and senior management continued to support further 
improvements to various governance initiatives to encourage 
simplification and promote effective decision making in the business. 
Guidance and training for Board and committee paper templates 
remained a focus in 2024 for global businesses and functions. In 
particular, a training session sponsored by the Group Chairman and 
the Group CEO took place to ensure that standards remained 
consistent and accurate across the Group. Additionally, the Groupwide delegations of authority framework was reviewed and approved 
by the Board and its relevant subsidiaries in February 2024. This 
decision was key to driving efficiencies in the execution of contracts 
and documents by directors and senior management. 
The Board, supported by the Nomination & Corporate Governance 
Committee, reviews the skills and experience of the Directors on an 
ongoing basis. This ensures that the composition of the Board and its 
Committees comprise the necessary skills, diversity, experience and 
competencies to discharge their responsibilities effectively. For 
further details of the review and changes to the Board, see the 
Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee report on page 259. 
For further details of diversity of the Board, see page 244.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
253
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The Board’s engagement with the workforce
The Board is committed to engaging with the Group’s workforce, 
which takes place in a variety of ways across many forums, including 
small-scale exchange sessions and larger town halls. These 
interactions allow the Board to have meaningful engagement with 
colleagues and gain insights from the workforce which inform Board 
discussion and decision-making. These engagements also provide 
colleagues with the opportunity to share ideas and feedback on topics 
that are important to them with the Board directly. 
It is the responsibility of all Directors to engage with colleagues, and 
the Board’s dedicated workforce engagement non-executive Director, 
José Meade, leads on the delivery of such engagements. The Board 
recognises that a dedicated non-executive director, that champions 
workforce engagement, presents an inclusive opportunity to help 
ensure that the employee voice is being considered and accounted 
for in Board decision-making. For further examples of how members 
of the Board have engaged with a variety of our stakeholders outside 
of the workforce engagement programme please see ‘Board decision 
making and engagement with stakeholders’ on page 20.
96
7,000+
Virtual/physical sessions 
attended by non-executive 
Directors
Number of employees engaged 
physically/virtually
9
55
Countries where in-person 
engagement took place and 
many more virtually
Virtual/physical sessions attended by 
workforce engagement nonexecutive Director
4,600+
Number of employees engaged virtually/physically by workforce 
engagement non-executive Director
The Board’s workforce engagement programme
In early 2024, the Board agreed a workforce engagement programme 
designed to ensure that Directors were afforded various opportunities 
to interact with colleagues across the Group. A non-exhaustive extract 
of the 2024 programme can be seen below. In structuring the 
programme, two mechanisms were used through which the Board 
engaged with the workforce. First, targeted events for Board 
members during Board travel or as individual Director location 
allowed, and second, Board members joined pre-existing Group 
employee events scheduled throughout the year. This approach 
allowed the Board to meet a diverse group of colleagues and 
participate in a broad range of different engagements. Engagement 
events were held in three broad formats; in-person events, largerscale events, including town halls; and virtual events. 
Visits to Global Services Centres (‘GSCs’) took on a variety of formats, 
mixing exchange sessions with floor walks, networking lunches and 
town halls. Engagements across all formats were designed to 
promote open dialogue and two-way discussions between the 
attending Directors and colleagues.
When designing the programme at the start of 2024, it took into 
account the Group’s key strategic areas of focus in place at the time 
and thereby worked to complement the Board’s priorities and agenda 
for 2024. Structuring the programme in this way meant that when the 
Board travelled for Board meetings to different regions, in-person 
engagements were arranged as part of the Board timetabling, which 
were highly valued by colleagues and Board members alike. A key 
component of the 2024 programme was visits to GSCs in locations 
that were convenient to scheduled Board travel. Further engagement 
events, town halls and meetings with the workforce were scheduled 
throughout the year either in person, where individual Director 
location allowed, or virtually. 
Board’s Workforce Engagement: 2024 Extract
January
February
March 
May
June
September
October
December
Colleague 
Engagement 
Lunch & Floor 
Walks
Representation 
& Inclusion 
exchange 
session 
Black Leaders 
Action and 
Advisory 
Council 
(’BLAAC’)
Strategy & 
Performance & 
Female Talent 
Engagement
GB&M Floor 
walk 
Tour of Risk & 
Compliance 
floor and 
exchange with 
colleagues 
Engagement 
with respective 
Employee 
Resource 
Groups (’ERG’)
US key talent & 
Market 
Securities 
Services team 
exchange
Audience
ERG Members 
and talent 
across a range 
of grades and 
businesses 
Leaders in the 
US market 
BLAAC 
members 
Senior and 
female UKbased talent 
GB&M 
colleagues
MENAT 
colleagues
ERG Global 
Leads
US colleagues
Location
Shanghai
New York 
Virtual
London
Singapore
Dubai
Virtual
New York
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
254
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The outputs and key themes arising from all engagements formed the 
bases of José Meade’s regular reports to the Board and facilitated 
Board discussions and decision-making. Further to José Meade’s 
commitment to attend the Group Executive Committee (’GEC’) and 
the Chairman’s Forum, by so doing this year he continued to help 
facilitate discussions on key themes, issues, employee sentiment, 
and other outcomes from the 2024 workforce engagements. His 
participation helped to ensure that good dialogue with senior 
executives and other Group subsidiary chairs was maintained and 
helped management to respond appropriately and in a timely manner 
to colleagues and their feedback. In addition, this allowed for José 
Meade to capture feedback from executives on workforce 
engagement and take their suggestions into consideration going 
forward. In his role, José Meade will continue to engage in these and 
other relevant forums during 2025. 
Workforce engagement non-executive Director activities during 2024
Key themes arose throughout the year such as, inclusion in the 
workplace, engagement with HSBC top talent, and Group Strategy. 
The themes guided conversations between colleagues and Board 
members and helped to shape the 2024 workforce engagement 
programme to ensure that it developed events that were reflective of 
these key topics.
Non-executive Director sponsorship of our Global Employee Resource 
Groups (’ERGs’) continued during 2024. Each Director is aligned to a 
Global ERG and during the course of 2024 has met with their 
respective ERGs to discuss the ERGs’ strategy for the year and 
upcoming priorities. Directors will also take part in other ERG events 
where possible, and every effort is made to facilitate local ERG 
members meeting their aligned Director during planned Board travel. 
Set out below is a selection of workforce engagement events that 
were held in 2024 across multiple regions, attended by José Meade 
and other members of the Board where the occasion permitted.
China 
–
Directors completed a floor walk to meet with teams from
across the Wealth and Private Banking business line, as well
as the Pinnacle team.
–
Directors learnt about the financial planning journey of an
HSBC customer, the role colleagues play and the digital
capabilities available.
–
Connected with various ERG representatives and colleagues
across functions to informally discuss and share
experiences.
New York
–
Attended the ‘HSBC Latin-Americans in NYC Day’ with key
speakers including macro strategists and featuring external
speakers on the Mexican economic outlook.
–
Met with a small group of leaders in HSBC to discuss
inclusion and culture in the US market and consider any
more progress needed.
London
–
An engagement session was held with colleagues where
views were sought on how colleagues interpreted and
understood Group strategy and its practical application.
–
An event was held to promote female talent in the UK.
Discussions held included the change of Group senior
leadership, what it meant to individuals and teams, and the
opportunities for female promotion.
Hong Kong
–
Participated in several sessions that allowed for Directors to
meet and network with Executive Leadership Programme
colleagues.
Singapore
–
Several sessions were held that were designed to promote
ERG engagement. Directors participated in sessions
including a Pride Panel as well as Ability, Sustainability and
Balance Exchanges, to ensure HSBC is inclusive and
supportive.
Dubai
–
Participated in a varied schedule of workforce engagement
events including a discussion with regional Embrace ERG
members and networking with senior talent.
Representation & Inclusion Exchange session
New York, February 
Pride Panel
Singapore, June 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
255
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Spotlight on our Global Service Centres (‘GSCs‘)
HSBC currently has GSCs in eight countries that operate in over 50 
markets and in 20 languages. The GSCs play a pivotal role in helping 
to support the wider HSBC business and are key in driving the 
technological capabilities of the Group. 
Continuing the focus on the Group’s GSCs in 2023 when José Meade 
visited Mexico City and Hyderabad, during 2024 he visited the GSCs 
in Krakow, Guangzhou and Cairo. Details of each visit are set out 
below. In July 2024, José Meade attended the GEC meeting where 
he discussed insights from his various engagements to date, 
including with the GSCs. Discussions at the GEC focused on key 
themes arising from the GSC visits, and how these could be further 
considered and taken forward by the executive team.
“It is impossible to discuss strategy without 
considering the role of our GSCs. I have 
visited several of our GSCs over the past year, 
which have further highlighted to me their 
pivotal role in our operations and in 
developing our technological capabilities 
more broadly for the success of the Group 
through strategy execution.”
José Meade, Dedicated Workforce Engagement NED
GSC: Krakow, Poland (May 2024)
4,570 
29 
13
FTE permanent 
employees
countries serviced
languages supported
–
José Meade visited the Krakow GSC during planned Board travel to the UK. Sessions were held by the local team, including a ‘Tech and Ops Roadshow’ and 
Cybersecurity ‘Show & Tell’, where José Meade learnt how the Polish GSC looks to leverage technology in servicing their businesses and functions.
–
HSBC Krakow employees have looked to build upon the ‘energise for growth’ strategic pillar. They have partnered with local universities to develop branded 
HSBC courses to recruit top talent locally and leverage relationships with fellow businesses to collaborate and problem-solve using technology-forward 
solutions. 
GSC: Guangzhou, China (June 2024)
8,571
19
7
FTE permanent 
employees
countries serviced
languages supported
–
Brendan Nelson and José Meade visited the Guangzhou GSC during planned Board travel to Hong Kong. They participated in several sessions during their 
visit, including those on risk capabilities delivered by the GSC and systems developed in collaboration with business and Technology to help enhance data 
accuracy. Directors had the opportunity to share and exchange their experiences with local GSC employees on topics such as talent, GSC intelligence, 
operations, and the future of HSBC. 
–
The local GSC in Guangzhou continues to act as a strategic centre specifically for markets across Hong Kong, Singapore and the UK. The visit underpinned 
how the GSC works to identify both issues and opportunities alike and deliver digital solutions in response, to the benefit of global business lines. 
GSC: Cairo, Egypt (September 2024)
2,243
23 
3
FTE permanent 
employees
countries serviced
languages supported
–
Rachel Duan and José Meade visited the Cairo GSC during planned Board travel to the Middle East. A deep dive session with the local HR lead allowed for
insights into how the Cairo GSC supports its employees and seeks to attract and retain top talent through development opportunities to help ensure that 
employees are engaged with their own growth within the organisation. Interactions with employees across Group operations, through local office floorwalks 
and networking lunches, allowed José Meade to understand how these policies work in practice and obtain first-hand feedback from employees on how the 
Group is working to promote their voice and ideas.
–
Group strategy remained a key theme during the GSC visit to Cairo, and Directors learnt more about the legacy and history of HSBC Egypt, as well as how it 
looks to progress in the future. 
Looking to the Future
“In 2024 we connected with our colleagues across the business and throughout the world. We 
focused discussions on our strategy, inclusion and our GSCs. This approach enabled us to 
highlight to the Board and senior management the strengths of our inclusive workforce. By 
engaging with our talented workforce directly, understanding and valuing their contributions, 
we continue to work together to open up a world of opportunity and achieve our strategic 
aims. In 2025, I look forward to working with my fellow Directors and senior leadership to 
build on this engagement and design a programme aligned to the refreshed strategic priorities, 
and help support the Group‘s ambitions, guided by our values, for the benefit of its many 
stakeholders.“ José Meade
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
256
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Board and committee 
effectiveness, performance and 
accountability 
Actions following the 2023 
Performance Review
As disclosed in last year’s report, the 2023 Board review concluded 
that the Board was performing well as an engaged, global governance 
body. The review highlighted, amongst other things, strong Board 
performance in areas including Stakeholder Accountability, Board 
Culture, Relationship with Senior Management, and Board Resources 
and Support, and identified some minor areas where further 
enhancement to the Board’s operating practices may be beneficial.
During 2024, the Board successfully implemented the actions agreed 
to address the findings from the 2023 review. This included the 
establishment of the Group Technology Committee (‘GTC‘) to provide 
oversight of technology-related matters across the Group. The GTC’s 
remit was later expanded to include responsibility for Operations, and 
as a result was renamed as the Group Technology and Operations 
Committee (‘GTOC’). Further details of the work of the GTC/GTOC 
can be found on pages 276 to 278.
In addition, the Board approved a revised set of Key Performance 
Indicators, ensuring that the Board can effectively oversee the 
performance of the business, and receive insights into execution, 
trends, and emerging areas of risk. These are kept under regular 
review. 
Other actions have resulted in changes to the Board’s operating 
practices, including through greater training on effective Board 
reporting and enhanced stakeholder engagement plans to ensure the 
Board has the opportunity for regular engagement with the full 
spectrum of key stakeholder groups.
2024 Board and committee 
performance review process 
Performance reviews are an important part of the effective 
governance and operation of the Board and its committees. In 2024, 
the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee invited 
Independent Board Evaluation (‘IBE’) to conduct a follow-up review to 
the 2023 external performance review. IBE is an independent external 
service provider with no other connection with the Group or any 
individual Directors. 
A comprehensive brief was provided to IBE to ensure focus on 
priority areas relevant to the Board and committees, IBE were also 
asked to provide an independent view as to whether the actions 
taken following the 2023 review had appropriately addressed the 
findings of that review. 
The review took the form of detailed 1-2-1 interviews with members 
of the Board and select members of management and advisers. IBE 
also attended and observed the Board and committee meetings in 
December 2024, and were provided with relevant meeting materials 
for review in advance. 
Initial observations were shared with the Board in December 2024, 
following which a report was compiled by IBE based on the views 
supplied by those interviewed as well as IBE’s observations as part of 
the review process. The process and findings set out in this report 
were shared and agreed with the Group Chairman, committee chairs 
and IBE. 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
257
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Findings and recommendations
Overall, the review concluded that the Board and its committees 
continued to operate effectively, with the 2023 report findings having 
been appropriately addressed and a few minor areas identified for 
further improvement. Positive feedback and practices were 
highlighted in relation to succession planning for the Board and senior 
management, with the pace and robustness of the Group CEO 
selection process considered to be particularly strong. Key strengths 
highlighted included the efficient, inclusive and transparent 
communication with the wider Board, and regulators through the 
duration of the process. The good practices would be leveraged for 
future senior succession practices, with the importance of a sufficient 
handover period being noted. 
The report from IBE also confirmed that the culture of the Board 
continues to be regarded as a key strength. The major organisational 
and leadership changes that took place during 2024 further 
demonstrated the flexibility of the Board governance and operating 
rhythm, and its commitment in response to the needs of the Group 
and its stakeholders. It was acknowledged that the refresh of the 
senior leadership team and executive governance framework would 
require ongoing strong and open communication between the Board 
and the new Group Operating Committee. The new committee 
structure, in particular the establishment of the Group Technology and 
Operations Committee and the launch of the Sustainability Working 
Group, have enhanced Board oversight and support to management 
in these areas of critical strategic importance. Further, it was 
acknowledged that work continues to ensure the quality and insight 
of reporting to the Board, with concise reports that focus on the most 
material and emerging risks. 
IBE presented its report to the December 2024 Board meeting, and 
was present for the Board’s discussion, led by the Group Chairman, 
on the findings identified through IBE’s review. Actions arising from 
the Board and committee review will be monitored by the Board over 
the coming months. Further details on the findings specific to each 
committee can be found within the respective committee reports 
later in this section. 
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
258
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Nomination & Corporate 
Governance Committee
“We have full confidence in Georges and the new senior leadership team. They have the 
skills, experience and track record necessary to deliver the next exciting phase of the 
Group’s development and growth.“ 
Sir Mark E Tucker
Chair
Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee
Membership
Key responsibilities
Member since
Meeting attendance 
in 20241
The Committee’s key responsibilities include:
–
overseeing succession planning and leading the process for
identifying and nominating candidates for appointment to the
Board and its committees;
–
overseeing succession planning and development of senior
leadership;
–
overseeing and monitoring the corporate governance framework
of the Company and its subsidiaries; and
–
ensuring that the corporate governance framework is consistent
with relevant standards and best practices.
Sir Mark Tucker (Chair)
Oct 2017
9/9
Geraldine Buckingham
May 2022
9/9
Rachel Duan
Sep 2021
9/9
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn
Sep 2021
8/9
James Forese
May 2020
9/9
Ann Godbehere
Sep 2023
9/9
Steven Guggenheimer
May 2020
9/9
José Antonio Meade 
Kuribreña
Apr 2019
9/9
Kalpana Morparia
Mar 2023
9/9
Eileen Murray2
Jul 2020
8/9
Brendan Nelson
Sep 2023
9/9
David Nish3
Apr 2018
3/3
Swee Lian Teo
Oct 2023
9/9
1 In addition to the scheduled Committee meetings, various sub-groups of 
the Committee were established during the year to oversee the 
succession process for the Group CEO and other senior leadership 
changes. 
2 Due to personal reasons, Eileen Murray was unable to attend the 
Committee meeting in September 2024. 
3 David Nish retired from the Board on 3 May 2024.
I am pleased to present the Nomination & Corporate Governance 
Committee report, which provides an overview of the Committee’s 
activities during 2024. 
Succession planning was central to the Committee’s agenda during 
the year. The main area of focus was the Group CEO succession 
planning, which was triggered by Sir Noel Quinn’s decision to retire as 
Group CEO. The Committee undertook a formal search process, 
which built upon the Committee’s long-term work to develop 
potential internal and external succession options for the Group CEO 
role. Additional details on this process, which unanimously concluded 
that Georges Elhedery was an outstanding candidate and the right 
person for the role, are set out later in this report. The rigorous and 
detailed work undertaken by the Committee over the prior years on 
Group CEO succession enabled us to conduct a thorough, robust and 
market-leading process, at pace. The process received positive 
feedback from key stakeholders, including from Committee 
members, as part of the 2024 Board and Committee performance 
review. 
The Committee also oversaw and supported the changes made to the 
Group’s organisational structure and leadership team. This included 
endorsing the establishment of the new Group Operating Committee 
(‘Group OpCo’), which serves as the leading decision-making 
executive committee of the Group. The Committee was fully 
supportive of Georges' recommendations for appointments to the 
Group OpCo. We have full confidence in Georges and the new senior 
leadership team. They have the skills, experience and track record 
necessary to deliver the next exciting phase of the Group’s 
development and growth.
We were delighted to welcome Pam Kaur to the Board as an 
Executive Director, following her appointment as Group CFO. Pam is 
well known to the Board, having served as Group Chief Risk Officer 
since 2020, and in the expanded role of Group Chief Risk and 
Compliance Officer since 2021, and we look forward to working 
closely with her in this new capacity. Georges and Pam formed an 
effective partnership in their prior roles, and I am confident that the 
Group and its stakeholders will continue to benefit from this 
relationship in the years ahead. I would also like to thank Jonathan 
Bingham, for his excellent work and valuable contributions during his 
tenure as Interim Group CFO. 
We have continued to review our governance structure in light of 
evolving business needs to ensure that it remains appropriate in 
supporting the delivery of Group strategy and aligned with 
stakeholder expectations. During 2024, this led to several changes to 
our Board and Committee operations, including the establishment of 
the Group Technology Committee and of the Sustainability Working 
Group. We subsequently agreed to expand the remit of the Group 
Technology Committee to include Operations. Going forward, the 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
259
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Group Technology and Operations Committee will oversee the work 
of the new Group CIO and Group COO. 
Both forums have strengthened our governance oversight in the key 
areas of technology and sustainability, which are two critical elements 
of our strategy and risk management activity. Additional details on 
these forums can be found on pages 23, and 276. 
Separately, following the changes to the organisational structure 
announced in October 2024, the Committee considered what further 
enhancements to the Group’s governance arrangements were 
necessary. This resulted in two principal changes. Firstly, in order to 
strengthen the connectivity between the Group and our most 
significant subsidiary boards, the Committee recommended that Ann 
Godbehere and Brendan Nelson be appointed as directors of HSBC 
Bank plc and HSBC UK Bank plc, respectively. Secondly, the 
Committee approved changes to the Group’s executive governance 
framework and operating rhythm aimed at ensuring enhanced, clearer 
lines of accountability and decision-making.
The annual Board and Committee performance review is critically 
important for ensuring that our governance practices meet the 
highest standards and work effectively. Following the externally 
facilitated review in 2023, conducted by IBE, the Committee invited 
them again to conduct a follow-up review in 2024. The objective was 
to provide assurance that the recommendations made had been 
addressed and that the Board and its Committees were working 
effectively. The findings and agreed actions from the 2024 review can 
be found from page 257.
Finally, there were changes to the UK and Hong Kong Corporate 
Governance Codes, which take effect from this year. Whilst our 
existing governance practices are aligned with the requirements of 
these revised Codes, the Committee continues to assess possible 
enhancements, monitoring market practices to ensure that we not 
only remain compliant, but also meet our objective of having world 
class governance. 
Sir Mark E Tucker
Group Chairman
Committee governance
The Group Chief People & Governance Officer, in her capacity as the 
Group Company Secretary, attended all Committee meetings during 
the year. She supported the Group Chairman in ensuring that the 
Committee fulfilled its governance responsibilities. The Group CEO 
selectively attended Committee meetings, joining when required.
Russell Reynolds Associates (’RRA’) supported the Committee and 
the management team with Board succession planning and 
appointments. RRA also provided support to management on senior 
management succession, and on development and recruitment. 
Representatives from RRA regularly attend meetings during the year 
and have no other connection with the Group or members of the 
Board.
Board composition and succession 
The Committee continued to keep the composition of the Board and 
of its Committees under review, with assessments focused on the 
skills, knowledge, and experience necessary to oversee, challenge 
and support management, in the achievement of the Group’s 
strategic and business objectives. 
The Committee has a long-standing policy under which non-executive 
Directors are expected to serve two three-year terms. Any 
appointments that extend beyond this are reviewed on an annual 
basis, with consideration given to the future needs of the Board, and 
the performance and contributions of the individual. 
José (’Pepe’) Meade, Workforce Engagement non-executive Director, 
will complete his second three-year term at the 2025 AGM. As a 
result, a review was conducted, which took into account the broader 
needs of the Board and the Group, to determine whether his term 
should be extended. Pepe has played an important and valuable role, 
significantly enhancing the Board’s engagements with all colleagues 
and its understanding of their views. In order to allow him to build on 
this work, as the business embarks on a period of change under new 
leadership, the Committee agreed that his appointment should be 
extended by a year, leading up to the 2026 AGM, subject to his reelection by shareholders. It is the Board’s strong belief that this 
extension of Pepe’s appointment, given his performance and 
contributions to the Board in 2024, is in the best interests of the 
Group and all of its stakeholders. 
The Committee will continue to monitor the market throughout 2025 
for potential candidates for appointment to the Board in both the short 
and medium-term. This will ensure that the Board has a pipeline of 
credible successors with the relevant skills, knowledge, and 
experience. 
Committee composition 
As communicated in the 2023 Annual Report and Accounts, the 
Board-level Group Technology Committee (’GTC’), chaired by Eileen 
Murray, was established on 1 March 2024. In December 2024, 
reflecting the changes to the Group COO role and its inclusion in the 
newly formed Group OpCo, the Committee approved changes to the 
remit of the GTC, adding responsibility for Operations, in addition to 
Technology. As a result, the GTC was renamed as the Group 
Technology and Operations Committee. Additional information on the 
work undertaken by the Group Technology and Operations 
Committee since its formation, along with its priorities for the year 
ahead, can be found from page 276. 
As part of the decision to establish the Sustainability Working Group 
(’SWG’), it was agreed that Geraldine Buckingham would be 
appointed as its Chair. Additional details on the work undertaken by 
the SWG can be found on page 23.
The Committee also reviewed the composition of the Board 
Committees, to ensure that it remains appropriate, with consideration 
given to the Board diversity and inclusion policy, and to ensure 
effective use of the skills and expertise of the Directors. Several 
changes to the Committees’ composition were agreed during the 
year. The Committee will continue to review the Committees’ 
composition to ensure that it remains appropriate. 
Board diversity
The Board recognises the importance of gender, social and ethnic 
diversity, and the benefits that diverse identities and backgrounds 
bring to Board effectiveness. Representation is a consideration in 
succession plans and appointments at both Board and senior 
management level, as well as more broadly across the Group. The 
Committee also considers representation on Board Committees when 
reviewing their composition.
At the end of 2024, the Board had 54% female representation, with 
seven female Board members out of a total of 13, which is above the 
year-end 2025 target set by the FTSE Women Leaders Review. 
Following Pam Kaur’s appointment as an Executive Director on 
1 January 2025, female representation increased to 57%. The Board 
now also has two female leaders holding one of the four senior 
positions. These four senior roles, as defined by the FTSE Women 
Leaders Review, are Chair, Chief Executive Officer, Senior 
Independent Director and Chief Financial Officer. 
Beyond gender, the Committee remains focused on enhancing the 
ethnic heritage diversity of the Board, reflecting the international 
nature of our business and HSBC’s Asia heritage. 
The Board’s diversity and inclusion policy highlights our commitment 
to diversity, while providing specifics on the approach taken to 
achieving our relevant ambitions. Additional details on activities aimed 
at improving representation across senior management and the wider 
workforce, together with supporting statistics, can be found on page 
64. The Board’s diversity and inclusion policy is available at 
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-people/board-of-directors/boardresponsibilities
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
260
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Group CEO succession
Following the announcement on 30 April 2024 that Sir Noel Quinn 
would retire as Group CEO, the Committee oversaw a rigorous formal 
search, selection and appointment process to identify the next leader 
of the Group. A high-level overview of the process is shown in the 
graphic below. 
The Committee’s focus on Group CEO succession planning since Sir 
Noel Quinn’s appointment in 2020, supported its objective to 
complete the search at pace and provide clarity on future leadership 
to the organisation and our stakeholders. 
The process to select Sir Noel Quinn’s successor was led by the 
Group Chairman and the Committee, who were supported by a 
leading external search partner. 
Key steps in the process included: 
–
The establishment of a committee sub-group, comprising the
Group Chairman, Senior Independent non-executive and
Committee Chairs, to oversee the process. Regular updates were
provided to the broader Committee through weekly update notes
from the Group Chairman, who also engaged with the Group’s
principal regulators throughout the process.
–
Agreement on the regulatory role profile and key selection criteria,
which included key technical, experiential and leadership
competencies that were determined to be essential for the
successful candidate.
–
The assessment of all internal and external candidates against this
role profile and selection criteria, with the support of a leading
external search firm. Candidates also provided a written
articulation of their strategic vision for the Group, which was
followed by the shortlisting of the final candidates.
–
Thorough referencing and background checks, which were
conducted on the final candidates, to provide the Committee with
a deeper understanding of their character and motivations.
–
The final candidates were interviewed with all non-executive
Directors. They also presented their strategic vision for the Group
to the Committee and participated in Q&A.
–
Interview feedback, which included non-executive Directors
scoring each candidate against the successful selection profile, as
well as qualitative feedback based on candidate interviews,
presentation and Q&A, which was collated and discussed by the
Committee.
Establishment of a 
sub-group of the 
Committee
Agreement of the 
regulatory role profile 
and success criteria
Internal and external 
candidate assessment
Candidate interviews 
with Group Chairman 
and NEDs
Presentations to 
Committee on 
strategic vision and 
Q&A
Announcement of 
appointment of 
Georges Elhedery as 
Group CEO
Board approval 
following receipt of 
regulatory approval
Regulatory 
engagement, 
application and 
interview
Decision on preferred 
candidate
Feedback collated and 
discussed by the 
Committee
Based on the information gathered on the candidates over the past 
four years, as well as the succession process, the Committee 
selected Georges Elhedery as the preferred candidate.
Georges then participated in the required regulatory interviews with 
the PRA and FCA, after which the Committee received confirmation 
of regulatory approval, and announced Georges’ appointment on 
Wednesday 17 July 2024. 
The Committee also agreed on a comprehensive induction and 
development plan to best support Georges’ transition to Group CEO. 
The Committee continues to oversee this plan and receives regular 
updates on progress. 
Senior executive succession and 
development
Jonathan Bingham, Global Financial Controller, was appointed as 
Interim Group CFO with effect from 2 September 2024. This interim 
appointment allowed Georges to focus on his new responsibilities as 
Group CEO, whilst the process to identify a permanent successor 
was conducted. The process to select the permanent Group CFO was 
led by the Group CEO, with the support of the Group Chief People & 
Governance Officer and a leading external search firm. Consistent 
with the approach taken for the selection of Georges Elhedery as 
Group CEO, internal and external candidates were considered and 
assessed against the agreed role profile and selection criteria. 
Following the completion of interviews with members of the Board, 
Pam Kaur was selected to join the Board as an Executive Director and 
Group CFO. 
Following Pam’s selection for the role of Group CFO, Richard 
Blackburn, Global Head of Traded and Treasury Risk Management & 
Global Head of Risk Analytics, was appointed as Interim Group Chief 
Risk and Compliance Officer with effect from 1 January 2025. An 
update on permanent succession for this position will be provided in 
due course.
In conjunction with the announcement on the new, simpler 
organisational structure, designed to unleash the full potential of 
HSBC, the Committee also approved several changes to the senior 
leadership team, based on the recommendations of the new Group 
CEO. These included the approval of the new Group OpCo terms of 
reference, together with its membership. Members of the Committee 
were closely involved in the assessment and selection process for 
roles on the new Group OpCo, including the roles of CEO of 
Corporate and Institutional Banking and Western Markets, and the 
split of the previous Group COO’s responsibilities into two new Group 
OpCo roles – those of Group CIO and Group COO. 
Committee performance review
The 2024 annual review of the effectiveness of the Board and Board 
Committees, including the Nomination & Corporate Governance 
Committee, was conducted externally by IBE. 
It determined that the Committee continued to perform effectively. 
There were no specific actions identified for the Committee. The 
review acknowledged the Committee’s role in the Group CEO 
succession process, which was very well managed, and identified 
several good practices that would be applied to future succession 
processes for key roles across the Group. Additional details on the 
annual review of the Board and Committees’ effectiveness can be 
found from page 257.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
261
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Subsidiary governance
In line with the subsidiary accountability framework, the Committee 
continued to oversee the corporate governance and succession 
arrangements across the principal subsidiary portfolio. Additional 
details on the subsidiary accountability framework are set out on 
page 247. 
Given the improvement in quality of the succession planning updates 
over the previous years, the Committee agreed that, for 2024, the 
material subsidiary plans no longer required direct oversight. Principal 
Subsidiaries continued to oversee plans for their respective 
subsidiaries, with the Committee retaining the ability to review 
material subsidiary succession plans, where necessary. 
The Committee continued to support and seek opportunities to 
enhance subsidiary connectivity. That included leveraging the 
Chairman’s Forum and Remuneration Committee Chairs’ Forum, 
which regularly brought together the chairs of the principal 
subsidiaries to discuss issues of common interest. 
In order to further strengthen connectivity between the Board and the 
most significant subsidiary boards, the Committee took relevant steps 
with two of the principal UK regulated entities. It recommended that 
Ann Godbehere be appointed to the HSBC Bank plc board and 
Brendan Nelson be appointed to the HSBC UK Bank plc board. Given 
that the Board has benefitted from James Forese’s leadership of the 
HSBC North America Holdings Inc. Board, the Committee is confident 
that these appointments will enhance governance arrangements and 
connectivity. 
The committee continues to provide support and look for 
opportunities to enhance subsidiary connectivity through nonexecutive Director events and other engagement forums. The 
Group’s flagship events held in 2024 included the Bank Director 
Programme and the Bank Chair Programme. The Group Chairman also 
hosted an annual Global NED Update, which was attended by over 
200 subsidiary non-executive Directors. 
Jan
Feb
Apr 
May
Jun
Jul
Sep
Sep
Dec
Board composition and succession
Board composition, including succession planning and skills matrices 
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Executive talent and development
Senior executive succession and appointments
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Governance 
Board and corporate governance developments
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Board and committee performance review
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Subsidiary governance 
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Subsidiary appointments 
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u Matter considered
u Matter not considered
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
262
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Group Audit Committee
“Given changes in the external operating environment and as a result of the 
reorganisation of the Group, the Group Audit Committee will play an important role in 
monitoring the impact on the control environment during this period of change.“
Brendan Nelson
Chair
Group Audit Committee
Membership
Key responsibilities
Member since
Meeting attendance 
in 20241
The Committee’s key responsibilities include:
–
monitoring and assessing the integrity of the financial 
statements, formal announcements and regulatory information 
in relation to the Group’s financial performance, as well as 
significant accounting judgements;
– reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls;
– reviewing management’s arrangements for compliance with 
prudential regulatory financial reporting; 
– reviewing the annual financial resource plan, including annual 
budget, capital expenditure and business plans;
– reviewing and monitoring the relationship with the external 
auditor and overseeing its appointment, remuneration and 
independence; 
– overseeing the Group’s policies, procedures and arrangements 
for capturing and responding to whistleblower concerns and 
ensuring they are operating effectively; and
–
overseeing the work of Global Internal Audit and monitoring and 
assessing the effectiveness, performance, resourcing, 
independence and standing of the function.
Brendan Nelson (Chair)
Sept 2023
10/10
Geraldine Buckingham2
Oct 2024
2/2
Rachel Duan3
Apr 2022
9/10
James Forese3
May 2020
9/10
Ann Godbehere4
Feb 2024
7/7
Eileen Murray5, 6
June 2022
6/8
David Nish7
May 2016
4/4
Notes:
1 These included one ad hoc meeting held on 31 January 2024 and a joint 
meeting with the Group Risk Committee (’GRC’), which took place on 18 
June 2024. 
2 Geraldine Buckingham was appointed as a member of the GAC on 
1 October 2024.
3 Rachel Duan and James Forese were unable to join one ad hoc GAC 
meeting, due to prior commitments.
4 Ann Godbehere joined the GAC on 21 February 2024. 
5 Eileen Murray stepped down from the GAC on 1 October 2024.
6 Eileen Murray was unable to attend the meeting held on 25 September 
2024 due to personal reasons. 
7 David Nish stepped down from the GAC on 3 May 2024 upon his 
retirement from the Board.
 
I am pleased to introduce the Group Audit Committee (‘GAC’) report, 
my first as GAC Chair. In this report, I have provided an overview of 
the key matters and issues considered by the GAC in 2024. I 
assumed the role of GAC Chair following the publication of the FY23 
results and Annual Report in February 2024, succeeding David Nish. I 
would like to acknowledge and thank David for his leadership of the 
GAC during his time as Chair. 
Internal controls have been a key focus during 2024, and the GAC 
assumed responsibility for the oversight of all internal controls - which 
was previously limited to those related to financial reporting. We have 
overseen management’s proposed enhancement of controls, 
including the creation of a new Group Chief Controls Oversight Office 
function. This will enhance effective operation and monitoring of the 
Group’s control environment. This will include the work to support 
preparations for the Board's declaration on the effectiveness of 
material controls, which will be required from 2026 under the 2024 
UK Corporate Governance Code.
Given changes in the external operating environment and as a result 
of the reorganisation of the Group, the GAC will have an important 
role in monitoring the impact on the control environment during this 
period of change. A key element of this continues to be our progress 
in enhancing the control environment regarding the Group’s 
regulatory reporting obligations. Remediation of errors in regulatory 
reporting and achieving a sustainable controls environment over these 
returns, remains a priority for the Committee, management and our 
regulators globally. Further details on progress under this programme 
can be found later in this report. 
The GAC received regular updates from the Group Chief Financial 
Officer and Global Financial Controller on key financial reporting 
issues and the related management judgements. These included 
spending significant time on the appropriateness and clarity of the 
Group’s market guidance, including in relation to returns, costs and 
expected credit losses (‘ECL’). Given the uncertain global 
macroeconomic environment, the GAC carefully considered its 
disclosures on ECLs, in particular those relating to the Group’s 
exposure to the mainland China and Hong Kong corporate real estate 
sectors. 
I have spent time with several of the subsidiary audit committee 
chairs, building on the important connectivity between the Group and 
subsidiaries established over the past few years. Regular engagement 
with our subsidiary audit chairs will continue to be an important part 
of the GAC’s governance practices through 2025 and beyond. 
The GAC also oversaw the External Quality Review of the Global 
Internal Audit function during the year, which was conducted by 
Deloitte in accordance with the Internal Audit Code. I am pleased to 
report that the function is highly valued across the HSBC Group, and 
received a ’Generally Confirms’ rating, which is the highest attainable 
under the internal audit International Professional Practices 
framework. 
Finally, I was pleased that the review of the GAC’s performance 
concluded that the GAC continued to operate effectively. Further 
details on the review, which also considered the performance of the 
Board and the other Board committees, can be found as part of the 
'How we are governed' section on page 257. 
Brendan Nelson
Chair of the Group Audit Committee
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
263
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Committee governance
The Committee operates under delegated authority from the Board, 
and advises the Board on matters concerning the Group’s financial 
reporting requirements. The Committee Chair reports on the key 
matters and discussions at the subsequent Board meeting, and the 
Board also receives copies of the Committee agendas and minutes. 
This supports the Board‘s oversight of the work carried out by 
management, Global Internal Audit and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
(‘PwC‘), as the Group’s statutory auditor. 
The Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee has confirmed 
that each member of the Committee is independent according to the 
criteria of the US Securities and Exchange Commission, and the 
Committee and individual members continue to possess competence 
relevant to the banking and broader financial services sector in which 
the Group operates. The Board has determined that Brendan Nelson 
and Ann Godbehere are the audit committee ‘financial experts’ for the 
purposes of section 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and have recent 
and relevant financial experience for the purposes of the UK and Hong 
Kong Corporate Governance Codes. 
The Committee Chair continued to engage with various key 
stakeholders, including the UK PRA, to understand their views, key 
themes and areas of focus within the broader financial services sector 
on matters relevant to the work of the Committee. This included 
trilateral meetings involving the Group’s external auditor, PwC, and 
the UK PRA.
Members of senior management routinely attended meetings of the 
GAC. The external auditor attended all meetings. 
The Chair holds regular meetings with management, Global Internal 
Audit and PwC, as the external auditor, to discuss relevant items as 
they arose during the year outside the formal Committee process. 
The Committee also regularly meets with the internal and external 
auditors, without management present. Private discussions are also 
held with relevant members of senior management, including the 
Group Chief Financial Officer and Group Chief Risk and Compliance 
Officer. 
Matters considered during 2024
Jan
Feb
Apr
Jun
Jul
Sep
Oct
Dec
Reporting
Financial reporting matters including: 
– review of financial statements, ensuring that disclosures are fair, balanced and understandable
– significant accounting judgements
– going concern assumptions and viability statement
– supplementary regulatory information
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Review of the Group's annual financial resource plan
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
ESG and climate reporting
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Regulatory reporting-related matters including:
– oversight of the Group's engagement with PRA-requested skilled person reviews
– reports from the principal subsidiaries on progress and learnings in relation to their local 
remediation efforts
– adequacy of resources across Finance and other SME teams to deliver the Group-wide 
remediation programme
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Certificates from principal subsidiary audit committees
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Control environment
Control enhancement programmes
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Group transformation
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Review of deficiencies and effectiveness of internal financial controls
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Internal audit
Reports from Global Internal Audit
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Audit plan updates, independence and effectiveness
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
External audit 
Reports from external audit, including external audit plan
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Appointment, remuneration, non-audit services and effectiveness
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Compliance
Accounting standards and critical accounting policies
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Corporate governance codes and listing rules
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Whistleblowing 
Whistleblowing arrangements and effectiveness
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u Matter considered
u Matter not considered
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
264
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

How the Committee discharged its responsibilities
Financial, sustainability and climate reporting
The GAC is responsible for reviewing the Group’s financial reporting 
during the year, including the Annual Report and Accounts, Interim 
Report, quarterly earnings releases, analyst presentations and Pillar 3 
disclosures. 
Furthermore, as an area of expanded assurance, the GAC, supported 
by the executive-level ESG Committee, provided close oversight of 
the disclosure risks in relation to sustainability and climate reporting, 
amid rising stakeholder expectations. The work will continue 
throughout 2025 in partnership with the Sustainability Working Group. 
As part of its review, the GAC:
–
challenged and evaluated management’s application of critical 
accounting policies and material areas in which significant 
accounting judgements were applied;
–
reviewed and challenged management’s judgements and 
disclosures in relation to impairment reviews of HSBC’s 
investment in Bank of Communications Co., Limited, performed 
using a value-in-use methodology;
–
gave particular regard to the analysis and measurement of IFRS 9 
ECL, including the key judgements and management adjustments 
made in relation to the forward economic guidance, underlying 
economic scenarios and reasonableness of the weightings, as well 
as modelling and adjustments; 
–
focused on preparation for disclosures to ensure these were 
consistent, appropriate and could be validated under the relevant 
financial and governance reporting requirements; 
–
tracked and monitored delivery against the external audit plan; and
–
provided advice to the Board on the form and basis underlying the 
long-term viability statement.
We also received independent third-party limited standalone 
assurance on the Group’s climate reporting. Further details can be 
found in ’Assurance relating to ESG data’ on page 44.
In conjunction with the GRC, the GAC considered the current position 
of the Group, along with the emerging and principal risks, and carried 
out a robust assessment of the Group’s prospects. This assessment 
informed the GAC’s recommendation to the Board on the Group’s 
long-term viability. The GAC also undertook a detailed review before 
recommending to the Board that the Group continues to adopt the 
going concern basis in preparing the annual and interim financial 
statements. Further details can be found on page 40.
Following the October 2024 announcement in relation to the Group's 
organisation structure, the GAC oversaw management proposals 
regarding the external disclosure requirements following the 
reorganisation of the Group around four core business. The GAC 
reviewed the financial resource plan, prior to approval by the Board, 
which helped to support the revised guidance, including in relation to 
the expected benefits from the reorganisation and simplification of 
the Group, which were communicated to the market as part of the 
FY24 results. In relation to the expected benefits specifically, the GAC 
considered the independent validation report provided by a third party, 
and which provided additional comfort on the appropriateness of 
management's proposed guidance. 
The GAC will complete a thorough review of the pro-forma historical 
financial performance for 2023 and 2024, based on the new 
organisational structure, prior to their communication to the market 
next month.
Financial planning
The GAC reviewed and debated the robustness of the financial plan 
for the financial years 2025 to 2029. The GAC considered the risks 
and challenges, and ensured that the process to develop the financial 
resource plan was robust and that the assumptions driving the 
financial performance of the Group were appropriate and subject to 
appropriate challenge. 
Fair, balanced and understandable 
Following review and challenge of the disclosures, the Committee 
recommended to the Board that the Annual Report and Accounts, 
taken as a whole, were fair, balanced and understandable. These 
provided the shareholders with the necessary information to assess 
the Group’s position and performance, business model, strategy and 
risks facing the business. 
The Committee reviewed the draft Annual Report and Accounts 2024 
and results announcements to provide feedback and challenge to 
management. It was supported by the work of the Group Disclosure 
and Controls Committee, which also reviewed and assessed the 
Annual Report and Accounts 2024 and investor communications.
This work enabled the GAC to discharge its responsibilities and 
support the Board in making the statement required under the UK and 
Hong Kong Corporate Governance Codes.
Internal controls 
During the year, the Board approved changes to the scope of the 
GAC’s responsibilities in relation to internal controls. These changes 
saw the GAC assume responsibility for oversight of the effectiveness 
of all internal controls. This reflected the GAC’s experience in 
overseeing internal controls over financial reporting, and the 
responsibility that will apply from the 2026 financial year to make a 
declaration on the effectiveness of material controls under the 2024 
UK Corporate Governance Code. 
Regular updates and confirmations are provided to the GAC on the 
action management takes to remediate any failings or weaknesses 
identified through the operation of the Group’s framework of internal 
financial controls. This is supplemented by reviews of these controls 
by the second line of defence and internal audit, and the external 
auditors, who provided additional comfort to the Committee on the 
effectiveness of these controls. These reviews confirmed that there 
were no material weaknesses as at the year-end.
These updates included the Group’s work on compliance with section 
404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Based on this work, the GAC 
recommended that the Board support its assessment of the internal 
controls over financial reporting.
The GAC continued to focus on controls over the Group's Insurance 
business following the implementation of the IFRS 17 ‘Insurance 
Contracts‘ accounting standards. The GAC welcomed management's 
progress in improving the control environment during 2024. However, 
there remains further work to ensure that the Insurance business 
embeds the control standards expected on a consistent basis across 
all markets. 
 For further details of how the Board reviewed the effectiveness of key 
aspects of internal control, see page 323. 
Regulatory reporting
Regulatory reporting has been a key priority for the Committee over 
recent years and will continue to be a priority for 2025. The 
Committee is focused on monitoring the programme of work to 
address the quality and reliability of regulatory reporting to meet 
regulatory expectations. 
Management provided updates on the status of ongoing HSBCspecific external reviews, and discussed the issues and themes 
identified from the increased assurance work and focus on regulatory 
reporting. The GAC also discussed root cause themes, remediation of 
known issues and new issues identified through the increased 
assurance work. The Committee challenged management on 
remediation plans, to assess whether there was a sustainable 
reduction in issues and that dependencies with other key 
programmes were well understood. 
 Further details can be found in the ‘Principal activities and significant issues 
considered during 2024’ table on page 268.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
265
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Adequacy of resources
The Committee is responsible, under the Hong Kong Listing Rules, to 
annually assess the adequacy of resources of the accounting, internal 
audit, financial reporting and ESG performance and reporting 
functions. It also monitored the legal and regulatory environment 
relevant to its responsibilities. 
The Committee determined that each of the functions provided 
thorough information with regards to people capacity and capability 
and endorsed the annual update to the Board.
In recognition that the enhancement of the Group’s regulatory reporting 
processes and controls was a priority for both the Committee and the 
Group’s regulators, the GAC also considered the adequacy of regulatory 
reporting resources as part of the year-end activities.
Connectivity with principal subsidiary audit 
committees
The Committee recognises the importance of strong connectivity and 
alignment with principal subsidiary audit committees. The 
mechanisms to support this are well established and continued to 
operate effectively during the year. 
This included information sharing and targeted collaboration between 
audit committee chairs and management to ensure there was 
appropriate focus on the local implementation of programmes. During 
2024 this included a particular focus on regulatory reporting, with the 
subsidiary audit committee chairs, chief executive officers and chief 
financial officers of the Europe, Asia-Pacific, Middle East and 
Americas regions attending Committee meetings to update on 
progress, share local challenges, and areas of focus with the 
Committee. 
In addition to the Chair‘s regular meetings with the audit chairs of the 
Group’s UK, European, US, Middle Eastern and Asian principal 
subsidiaries, and their attendance at GAC meetings for relevant items, 
they provided quarterly reports on their local audit committee activity. 
This included updates on internal control, and financial and regulatory 
reporting matters that are significant from a local or enterprise-wide 
perspective. In addition, the Committee received escalations from 
subsidiary boards for information and action, as appropriate. The 
connectivity between the Group and subsidiary audit committees is 
supplemented by attendance at committee meetings by the Group 
and subsidiary audit committee chairs. 
On a half-year basis, principal subsidiary audit committees provided 
certifications to the Committee that regarded the preparation of their 
financial statements, adherence to Group policies and escalation of 
any issues that required the attention of the Committee. These 
certifications also included information regarding the governance, 
review and assurance activities undertaken by principal subsidiary 
audit committees in relation to prudential regulatory reporting. 
External auditor 
The GAC has the primary responsibility for overseeing the relationship 
with the Group’s external auditor, PwC. 
PwC completed its tenth audit, providing robust challenge to 
management and sound independent advice to the Committee on 
specific financial reporting judgements, sustainability reporting and 
the overall control environment. The senior audit partner is Matthew 
Falconer, who assumed the role as part of the regular rotation of audit 
partners in support of the independence of PwC for the 2024 financial 
year. The Committee reviewed the external auditor’s approach and 
strategy for the annual audit and received regular updates on the 
audit, including observations on the control environment. 
Key audit matters discussed with PwC are set out in its report on 
page 331. The Committee reviewed, and concluded that, all 
requirements of the Financial Reporting Council's (‘FRC’) Audit 
Committee and the External Audit: Minimum Standard (’the 
Standard’), where relevant, were met during 2024. 
The GAC reviewed the PwC external audit approach, including the 
materiality, risk assessment and scope of the audit. PwC highlighted 
the changes being made to its approach to enhance the quality and 
effectiveness of the audit. PwC’s plan supports its, and the GAC’s, 
focus on audit quality through standardisation, centralisation and the 
use of technology. 
Following commitments made as part of the audit tender process 
conducted in 2022, specifically in relation to plans for greater 
utilisation of digital solutions on the HSBC audit, the Committee 
received a demonstration of how PwC were leveraging digital audit 
tooling as part of the audit of the Group’s accounts. PwC continue to 
look for opportunities to further leverage technology to enhance the 
efficiency, robustness and quality of the Group statutory audit. 
Effectiveness of external audit process
The GAC assessed the effectiveness of PwC as the Group’s external 
auditor, using a questionnaire that focused on the overall audit 
process, its effectiveness and the quality of output. 
In addition, the GAC Chair, certain principal subsidiary audit chairs and 
members of the Group Executive Committee met with the Senior 
Audit Partner to discuss findings from the questionnaire and provide 
in-depth feedback on the interaction with the PwC audit team. 
Key strengths identified through the review included strong 
independent challenge, the knowledge of the audit team and the 
good understanding of the Group‘s businesses and associated risks 
that were demonstrated through the course of the audit. The review 
also identified some areas for improvement, including with regards to 
communication and coordination with management, and planning. 
The GAC receives regular updates from PwC and management on 
performance across the audit quality indicators, which provides wider 
visibility of ongoing and emerging issues. 
There were no breaches of the policy on hiring employees or former 
employees of the external auditor during the year. The lead audit 
partner attends all Committee meetings and the GAC Chair maintains 
regular contact with the senior audit partner and his team throughout 
the year.
During the year, the Committee considered the impact of the fine and 
six-month suspension on PwC’s China Firm upon PwC UK‘s ability to 
act as auditor for the Group. The GAC received assurance from PwC’s 
Global Leadership Team that the issues leading to the sanctions did 
not impact the Group, and that PwC were taking appropriate steps to 
prevent reoccurrence. The GAC will continue to monitor until the 
completion of the suspension, which is due to expire during March 
2025. 
Independence and objectivity
The Committee assessed any potential threats to independence that 
were self-identified or reported by PwC. Based on the reporting 
received, PwC are deemed to be independent and PwC, in 
accordance with professional ethical standards and applicable rules 
and regulations, provided the GAC with written confirmation of its 
independence for the duration of 2024. 
The Committee confirms it has complied with the provisions of The 
Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation 
(Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit 
Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014 for the financial statements. 
Following the Committee‘s recommendation to reappoint PwC as the 
auditor, shareholders passed the associated resolution at the 2024 
AGM. At the same time, shareholders authorised the Committee to 
determine PwC‘s audit fee for the financial year ended 31 December 
2024, which was approved by the Committee at its July 2024 
meeting.
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
266
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Non-audit services
The Committee is responsible for setting, reviewing and monitoring 
the appropriateness of the provision of non-audit services by the 
external auditor. It also applies the Group’s policy on the award of 
non-audit services to the external auditor. The non-audit services are 
carried out in accordance with the external auditor independence 
policy to ensure that services do not create a conflict of interest. All 
non-audit services are either approved by the GAC Chair, or by Group 
Finance when acting within delegated limits and criteria set by the 
GAC.
The non-audit services carried out by PwC included 16 engagements 
approved during the year where the fees were over $100,000 but less 
than $1m. Group Finance, to whom the GAC has delegated authority 
for non-audit services below $1m, considered that it was in the best 
interests of the Group to use PwC for these services because they 
were: 
–
audit-related assurance services, with the work closely related to 
work performed in the audit and in some instances required by 
local regulators to be performed by the external auditor; or 
–
other assurance services that involve obtaining appropriate audit 
evidence to express a conclusion designed to enhance the degree 
of confidence of the intended users other than the responsible 
party about the subject matter information, including attestation 
reports on internal controls of a service organisation primarily 
prepared for and used by third-party end users. 
There were no engagements during the year where the fees 
exceeded $1m, above which GAC approval would be required.
2024
2023
Auditors‘ remuneration
$m
$m
Total fees payable
146.6
155.9
of which fees for non-audit services
43.8
46.1
Ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees1
 
43.0% 
 
42.0% 
1 The calculation is on a simple ratio and is not based on FRC guidance on nonaudit fees ratio thresholds.
Whistleblowing and speak-up culture
An important part of HSBC’s values is speaking up when something 
does not feel right. HSBC remains committed to ensuring colleagues 
have confidence to speak up and acting when they do. A wide variety 
of channels are provided for colleagues to raise concerns, including 
the Group’s whistleblowing channel, HSBC Confidential (see page 80 
for further information).
The Board has delegated responsibility to the GAC to oversee the 
effectiveness of HSBC’s whistleblowing procedures. The Chair of the 
GAC is a Group Senior Manager (’SMF7’), and has a prescribed 
responsibility as the Whistleblowers’ Champion to ensure integrity of 
HSBC’s policy and procedure on whistleblowing and protecting those 
who report concerns. As part of his responsibility, the GAC Chair 
reports to the Board on the GAC’s oversight of whistleblowing as part 
of his regular reporting updates.
The Group Head of Regulatory Compliance regularly updates the GAC 
on whistleblowing effectiveness, including controls assessments and 
internal audit findings. In 2024, the GAC has been briefed on actions 
to improve the timeliness of HSBC Confidential investigations against 
internal standards. The Committee is also briefed on culture and 
conduct risks from whistleblowing cases and actions taken. In 2024, 
the GAC Chair also met with the Group Head of Regulatory 
Compliance for briefings on significant whistleblowing matters. 
Global Internal Audit 
The primary role of the Global Internal Audit function is to help the 
Board and Management to strengthen the organisation’s ability to 
create, protect and sustain value. Global Internal Audit does this by 
providing independent, risk based and objective assurance on the 
design and operating effectiveness of the Group’s governance, risk 
management and control framework and processes, prioritising the 
greatest areas of risk. The independence of Global Internal Audit from 
day-to-day line management responsibility is fundamental to its ability 
to deliver objective audit coverage of all parts of the Group. Global 
Internal Audit is free from interference by any element in the 
organisation, including on matters of audit selection, scope, 
procedures, frequency, timing, or internal audit report content. The 
Group Head of Internal Audit reports to, and meets frequently with, 
the Chair of the GAC. 
In addition, in 2024, there was continued heightened interaction 
between Global Internal Audit Senior Management and the members 
of the GAC, aimed at increasing knowledge and awareness of the 
audit universe and existing and emerging risks identified by Global 
Internal Audit. Global Internal Audit adheres to The Institute of Internal 
Auditors' mandatory guidance. 
Consistent with previous years, the 2025 audit planning process 
includes assessing the inherent risks and strength of the control 
environment across the audit entities representing the Group. Results 
of this assessment are combined with a top-down analysis of risk 
themes by risk category to ensure that themes identified are 
addressed in the annual plan. Audit coverage is achieved using a 
combination of business and functional audits of processes and 
controls, risk management frameworks and major change initiatives, 
as well as regulatory audits, investigations and special reviews. In 
addition to the ongoing importance of regulatory-focused work, key 
risk theme categories for 2025 audit coverage remain as: strategy, 
governance and culture; financial crime, conduct and compliance; 
financial resilience; and operational resilience. A quarterly continuous 
monitoring assessment of key risk themes will form the basis of 
thematic reporting and plan updates and will ultimately drive the 2026 
planning process. 
Global Internal Audit has made updates to the audit universe and risk 
assessment to reflect the Group reorganisation. As a result, audits 
have been added to the 2025 Annual Audit Plan, and audits have been 
refocused, to reflect the risks arising from the Group reorganisation. 
In addition to the Group reorganisation, Global Internal Audit’s new or 
heightened areas of coverage for 2025 are: Group strategy; significant 
change initiatives including regulatory change; material regulatory 
obligations; compliance; anti-money laundering and sanctions; 
conduct, internal and external fraud; credit risk management; financial 
forecasting; regulatory reporting; enterprise wide risk management, 
operational resilience; Financial Reporting Council Corporate 
Governance reporting on material controls; model risk management; 
data management; technology resilience and cybersecurity; and 
incident and escalation management. In addition, Global Internal Audit 
will continue its programme of culture audits to assess the extent that 
behaviours reflect HSBC’s purpose, ambition, strategy and values. 
The annual audit plan and material plan updates made in response to 
changes in the Group’s structure and risk profile are approved by the 
GAC.
The results of audit work, together with an assessment of the Group’s 
overall governance, risk management and control framework and 
processes are reported to the GAC, GRC and local audit and risk 
committees, as appropriate. This reporting highlights key themes 
identified through audit activity, and the output from continuous 
monitoring. This includes business and regulatory developments and an 
independent view of emerging and horizon risk, together with details of 
audit coverage and any required changes to the annual audit plan. Based 
on regular internal audit reporting to the GAC, private sessions with the 
Group Head of Internal Audit, the Global Professional Practices annual 
assessment and quarterly quality assurance updates, the GAC is 
satisfied with the effectiveness of the Global Internal Audit function 
and the appropriateness of its resources. In December 2024, Global 
Internal Audit’s External Quality Assessment Review was reported to 
the GAC, which concluded that Global Internal Audit is a wellrespected, independent provider of assurance which is highly valued 
across the Group and that Global Internal Audit generally conforms 
with the 2017 International Professional Practices framework (’IPPF’), 
which includes the IIA Standards and Code of Ethics. ’Generally 
Conforms’ is the highest rating attainable and means the function is 
compliant with the requirements of the Standards in all material 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
267
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

aspects. Global Internal Audit also generally meets the CIIA’s IA 
Financial Services Code of Practice requirements.
Executive management is accountable for addressing the matters raised 
by Global Internal Audit, which must be addressed within an appropriate 
and agreed timetable. Confirmation to this effect must be provided to 
Global Internal Audit, which validates closure on a risk basis.
Global Internal Audit maintains a close working relationship with 
HSBC’s external auditor, PwC. The external auditor is kept informed 
of Global Internal Audit’s activities and results, and is afforded free 
access to all internal audit reports and supporting records.
Areas of focus
Key issues
Conclusions and actions
Significant 
accounting 
judgements
Expected credit losses
The measurement of expected credit losses involves 
significant judgements, particularly under current 
economic conditions. There remains uncertainty over 
ECL estimation due to sustained high inflation, 
interest rate volatility, economic policy changes 
following election outcomes globally and weaker 
economic growth in the Group’s key operating 
markets.
–
The Committee reviewed economic scenarios for the key countries and territories in 
which the Group operates and challenged management’s judgements on the 
weightings assigned to the scenarios. The Committee also challenged 
management’s judgemental adjustments to account for uncertainty in specific 
sectors and geographies, including the controls underpinning the adjustments 
process and conditions under which the adjustments would be reduced or removed. 
–
The Committee continued to monitor management’s updates on areas of particular 
focus, including downside risk in mainland China and Hong Kong commercial real 
estate sectors. 
Valuation of defined benefit pension obligations
The valuation of defined benefit pension obligations 
involves highly judgemental inputs and actuarial 
assumptions which include interest rate, inflation rate, 
mortality rates and other demographic assumptions. 
Management considered these assumptions in 
consultation with actuarial experts to determine the 
valuation of the defined benefit obligations.
–
The GAC has considered the effect of changes in key assumptions on the HSBC UK 
Bank plc section of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pensions Scheme, which is the principal 
plan of HSBC Group. Details of key assumptions can be found on pages 378 to 379 
of the ’Notes on the financial statements’.
Valuation of financial instruments 
During 2024, management continuously refined its 
methodology and approach to valuing the Group’s 
portfolio in relation to investments, trading assets and 
liabilities and derivatives. 
–
The Committee received periodic updates on the key valuation metrics and 
judgements involved in the determination of the fair value of financial instruments, 
and agreed with the judgements applied by management, which were validated 
through appropriate governance and control forums.
Investment in subsidiaries
Management has reviewed investments in 
subsidiaries for indicators of impairment and 
conducted impairment reviews where relevant. These 
involve exercising significant judgement to assess the 
recoverable amounts of subsidiaries, by reference to 
projected future cash flows, discount rates and 
regulatory capital assumptions.
–
The Committee reviewed the judgements in relation to the impairment review of 
HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited and the key inputs such as projected profits, 
underpinning the recoverable amounts of its subsidiaries. 
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2024
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
268
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2024 (continued)
Areas of focus
Key issues
Conclusions and actions
Significant 
accounting 
judgements
Investment in an associate – Bank of 
Communications Co., Limited
During the year, management performed impairment 
reviews of HSBC’s investment in Bank of 
Communications Co., Ltd (‘BoCom’). This included 
assessment as to whether there is indication of 
further impairment, or that previously recognised 
impairment may no longer exist or may have 
decreased. The impairment reviews are complex and 
require significant judgements, such as the 
appropriateness of projected future cash flows, 
discount rate, and regulatory capital assumptions.
–
The GAC reviewed and challenged management’s judgements and disclosures in 
relation to impairment reviews of HSBC’s investment in BoCom, performed using a 
value-in-use methodology.
–
The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of key assumptions such as projected 
future cash flows, with particular focus on the potential impacts of the publicly 
announced policies aimed at promoting growth and economic development in China 
during the fourth quarter of 2024.
–
The GAC considered the consistency of judgements with prior period impairment 
reviews, reflecting available details as at 31 December 2024 as to how these 
policies may be enacted. 
Interest rate management
During 2024, management proposed a framework for 
the disposal of selected hold-to-collect-and-sell 
securities to improve risk management of hold-tocollect-and-sell positions and to stabilise and protect 
net interest income over the medium term. 
–
The GAC received regular management updates on hedging strategy, including the 
repositioning of structural interest rate hedges. 
–
The Committee reviewed controls on, and financial outcomes of, disposals of holdto-collect-and-sell securities.
Impairment of goodwill and non-financial assets
During the year, management tested for impairment 
goodwill and non-financial assets including additional 
consideration for the future impacts resulting from the 
announced organisational restructure. Key 
judgements in this area relate to long-term growth 
rates, discount rates and projected future cash flows 
to include for each cash-generating unit tested, both 
in terms of compliance with the accounting standards 
and reasonableness of the forecasts.
–
The Committee reviewed and challenged management’s approach and methodology 
used for the impairment testing of goodwill and non-financial assets, with a key 
focus on the projected cash flows included in the forecasts and discount rates used.
–
The GAC also challenged management’s key judgements and considered the 
reasonableness of the outcomes against business forecasts and strategic objectives 
of HSBC.
Legal proceedings and regulatory matters
Management has used judgement in relation to the 
recognition and measurement of provisions, as well 
as the existence of contingent liabilities for legal and 
regulatory matters. 
–
The Committee reviewed reports from management on legal proceedings and 
regulatory matters, and challenged related accounting judgements and disclosures.
Tax-related judgements
HSBC has recognised deferred tax assets to the 
extent that they are recoverable through expected 
future taxable profits. Significant judgement continues 
to be exercised in assessing the probability and 
sufficiency of future taxable profits, future reversals of 
existing taxable temporary differences and expected 
outcomes relating to uncertain tax treatments.
–
The Committee considered the recoverability of deferred tax assets. The Committee 
also considered management’s judgements relating to tax positions in respect of 
which the appropriate tax treatment is uncertain, open to interpretation or has been 
challenged by the tax authority.
Long-term viability and going concern statement 
The GAC has considered a wide range of information 
relating to present and future projections of 
profitability, cash flows, capital requirements and 
capital resources. These considerations include 
stressed scenarios and the implications of: 
–
geopolitical tensions including the ongoing RussiaUkraine and Middle East conflicts, US-China 
tensions and the consequential impacts on the 
supply chains globally; 
–
macroeconomic risks including inflationary risks, 
mainland China and Hong Kong real estate sector 
risks and economic policy uncertainty following 
election outcomes globally; and
–
climate risk, operational resilience, and other top 
and emerging risks, and the related impact on 
profitability, capital and liquidity.
–
In accordance with the UK and Hong Kong Corporate Governance Codes, the 
Directors carried out a robust assessment of the principal and emerging risks of the 
Group and parent company. The GAC considered the statement to be made by the 
Directors and concluded that the Group and parent company will be able to continue 
in operation and meet liabilities as they fall due, and that it is appropriate that the 
long-term viability statement covers a period of three years.
Impact of acquisitions and disposals
HSBC engaged in a number of business acquisitions 
and disposals, notably in Canada, Germany, South 
Africa, Argentina, Armenia and Russia. Judgement 
was involved in determining the timing of recognition 
of assets held-for-sale, gains or losses, and the 
measurement of assets and liabilities on acquisition or 
disposal.
–
The Committee reviewed management’s judgements related to the completion of 
the sale of the Group's banking business in Canada and of HSBC Argentina, as well 
as the planned sales of the German private bank business and the business in South 
Africa, such as the timing of classification as held-for-sale and the remeasurement of 
assets. 
Financial and 
regulatory 
reporting
Environmental, social and governance (‘ESG’) 
reporting
The Committee considered management’s efforts to 
enhance ESG disclosures and associated verification 
and assurance activities, with a specific focus on the 
net zero transition plan and climate-related disclosures 
made in the Annual Report and Accounts 2024.
–
The Committee considered ESG disclosures for the Annual Report and Accounts 
2024 in detail, to ensure these were fair and balanced, and were also transparent on 
the challenges faced and aligned with the Group’s progress in the embedding of 
sustainable and climate-related policies across the business. In addition, the 
committee reviewed the narrative relating to our net zero ambitions and targets and 
the planned annual net zero transition plan review.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
269
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2024 (continued)
Areas of focus
Key issues
Conclusions and actions
Regulatory reporting
The GAC monitored progress by management in 
delivering a sustainable control environment for 
regulatory reporting across the Group. 
–
The Committee reflected on the continued focus on the quality and reliability of 
regulatory reporting by the PRA and other regulators globally. 
–
The Committee oversaw management’s execution against the agreed remediation 
plans, and challenged management on the approach and timeframes to deliver 
accurate reporting submissions to the Group’s global regulators. Discussions 
included a focus on shared dependencies across various Group-wide programmes, 
for example and in particular, data. 
Control 
environment
Sustainable control environment
The GAC oversaw the effectiveness of the internal 
control environment of the Group, including with 
regards to the requirements of US Sarbanes-Oxley 
Act. 
During the year, the remit of the GAC with regards to 
internal control was extended beyond financial 
reporting controls to include oversight of all internal 
controls. 
–
The Committee received regular updates on the control environment, and broader 
change framework, to review the impact on financial reporting and tax risk within 
the Group, with regular updates provided on IFRS 17 and Basel 3.1.
–
In these updates the Committee monitored the assessment of the financial 
reporting risk, tax risk and progress made on remediation of US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 
significant deficiencies. This oversight helped the Committee to understand the 
progress being made by management to set out strategic actions to remediate 
identified issues and uplift the control environment to enable a sustainable reduction 
in risk. 
–
Management’s updates were supplemented by further focus and assurance work 
from Global Internal Audit, including audits of significant programmes of activity 
during 2024.
–
The Committee oversaw the work to support the Group’s oversight of internal 
controls, including the establishment and scope of responsibilities of the new Group 
Controls Oversight Office. 
Regulatory 
change
Basel 3.1 Reform
The GAC considered the implementation of the Basel 
3.1 Reform and the impact on the capital 
requirements and RWA assurance. This was 
considered in the context of the strategy and 
structure of the balance sheet.
–
The Committee received updates on the progress and impact of the Basel 3.1 
programme on the Group, including following the publication by the PRA on 
12 September 2024 of the second near-final policy statement and rules covering 
their implementation. 
–
Management discussed the delayed implementation dates, ongoing uncertainty 
over the final definition of the rules by regulators, and the work undertaken to 
mitigate delivery risks given the concentration of delivery during 2024 & 1H25. The 
discussion highlighted the dependencies of the Basel 3.1 programme with data, 
models and subject matter resources. 
–
The Committee reviewed the ongoing management of risks, issues and 
dependencies and challenged management to prioritise deliverables across each 
jurisdiction in line with regulatory timelines. The Committee discussions focused on 
ensuring, in each case, that the Group complied with the applicable minimum 
standards under the regulation. 
Committee performance review 
In 2024, the annual review of the performance of the Board 
committees, including the GAC, was conducted externally by IBE. On 
the basis of the review, directors concluded that the GAC continued 
to operate effectively.
Positive feedback was noted on the refreshed Committee 
composition, in particular the change of Committee leadership and 
the new practices and focus introduced, including on the control 
environment. The Committee will consider scheduling an extra 
meeting in 2025 to provide additional, dedicated time for discussion, 
given the range and complexity of topics under the Committee’s 
remit. The review highlighted the continued importance of strong 
interaction between the GAC, GRC, and GTOC agendas, via the 
Committee Chairs, and this will continue to be an area of focus in 
2025. 
Further details of the annual review of the Board and Committee 
effectiveness can be found on page 257. 
 
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
270
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Group Risk Committee
“Managing the impacts of political change and policy volatility has been a key trend this 
year, with changes in governments globally, having economic and commercial 
implications for both the Group and the industry.“
James Forese
Chair
Group Risk Committee
Membership
Key responsibilities
Member since
Meeting attendance 
in 20241
The Group Risk Committee (’GRC’) has overall non-executive 
responsibility for the oversight of risk-related matters and the risks 
impacting the Group. The GRC’s key responsibilities include:
–
overseeing and advising the Board on all risk-related matters, 
including financial and non-financial risks;
–
advising the Board on risk appetite-related matters, and key 
regulatory submissions;
–
reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management 
framework and how effectively management is embedding and 
maintaining an effective risk management control system; 
–
reviewing and challenging the Group’s stress testing exercises; 
and
–
overseeing the Group’s approach to conduct, fairness and the 
prevention of financial crime.
James Forese (Chair)
Jun 2022
10/10
Geraldine Buckingham2
Jun 2022
8/8
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn
Sep 2021
10/10
Steven Guggenheimer
May 2020
10/10
Kalpana Morparia3
Jul 2020
8/8
Eileen Murray4
Oct 2024
2/2
Brendan Nelson
Sep 2023
10/10
David Nish5
Feb 2020
3/4
Swee Lian Teo
Oct 2023
10/10
1 These included six scheduled meetings, two ad hoc meetings and two 
joint meetings, one with the Group Remuneration Committee and one 
with the Group Audit Committee.
2 Geraldine Buckingham stepped down from the GRC on 1 October 2024.
3 Kalpana Morparia stepped down from the GRC on 1 October 2024.
4 Eileen Murray was appointed to the GRC on 1 October 2024.
5 David Nish stepped down from the GRC on 3 May 2024. He was unable 
to attend one meeting due to a prior commitment.
I am pleased to present the GRC report.
The GRC membership has been refreshed this year to ensure that the 
mix of skills and experience remains appropriate for the business of the 
Committee and due to the retirement of David Nish, who stepped down 
from the Committee in May after completing eight years of service with 
the Group. I would like to thank David for his contribution to the GRC as a 
valued member. Geraldine Buckingham and Kalpana Morparia stepped 
down from the GRC in order to join other Board Committees. Eileen 
Murray joined the GRC to complement her chair responsibilities for the 
Group Technology and Operations Committee. 
From a macroeconomic perspective, the year has been characterised by 
a fluctuating interest rate outlook. There have been persistent concerns 
over potential ’hard landings’ in major economies, and ’higher for longer’ 
policy rate predictions gradually shifting to market expectations for more 
and rapid rate cuts, though with significant ongoing volatility and 
uncertainty. Managing the impacts of political change and policy volatility 
has been a key trend this year, with changes in governments having 
economic and commercial implications for both the Group and the 
industry. While performance in Hong Kong has improved, mainland China 
continues to experience a slow economic recovery. The Group’s 
wholesale credit risk and retail credit risk portfolios remain resilient 
despite these challenges and the GRC has regularly reviewed portfolio 
performance throughout the year.
Financial risks have been well managed this year, and the GRC has 
continued to focus on treasury, capital and liquidity risk management 
activities, including dedicating time to its assessment of the internal 
capital adequacy assessment process (‘ICAAP’) and internal liquidity 
adequacy assessment process (‘ILAAP’), which the GRC considers to be 
one of its primary responsibilities. This is alongside prudential sensitivity 
analysis and its recovery and resolution responsibilities. The Group made 
its Resolvability Assessment Framework public disclosure in August, 
receiving positive feedback from the Bank of England, which recognised 
the progress made and our success in remediating previously identified 
shortcomings. The Group Recovery Plan was submitted in June and we 
await feedback from the PRA.
Non-financial risk has necessitated considerable GRC attention this year. 
The fast-paced regulatory landscape has resulted in dynamic, and in 
many cases, increasing expectations from regulators around the world. 
With the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine, navigating 
sanctions obligations has been an ongoing challenge, and the IsraelHamas conflict poses a significant risk to security in the region, with 
associated potential customer, staff and operational impacts. With the 
publication of Supervisory statement 1/23 – ‘Model risk management 
principles for banks’ last year, the GRC has undertaken to better 
understand its responsibilities under the new regime, by challenging the 
revised Group policy and framework, and holding an education session to 
increase knowledge. The GRC supported management through an 
exercise to enhance the HSBC Risk Management Framework, which has 
resulted in several areas of improvement and brings us into line with 
industry best practice. The Committee has also considered updates to 
the Global Risk Appetite Framework and Group Risk Appetite Statement 
to promote more transparency and consistency across the Group. The 
Group continues to prepare for the PRA’s regulatory requirements 
relating to Operational Resilience by improving its capabilities, identifying 
its vulnerabilities and undertaking an extensive programme of testing. 
Risk culture and its importance has also featured extensively throughout 
committee discussions, including the development and implementation 
of the Risk Culture Framework. Other areas of focus and challenge 
include the Group’s data strategy and remediation programme, conduct 
and financial crime, technology and cyber risk, ESG and ongoing Risk 
Transformation programmes. As explained in the Report of the GAC on 
page 265, responsibility for oversight of all internal controls transitioned 
to the GAC during 2024.
 Further details on these and other areas of GRC oversight during the year 
are set out below.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
271
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

I am proud to have led the GRC this year and am pleased at the 
effective execution of its duties. I am confident the Committee 
remains well placed to discharge its responsibilities and provide 
valuable advice to the Board in 2025 and the future.
Committee governance
The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, Group CFO, Group 
Chief Operating Officer, Group Chief Information Officer, Group Chief 
People & Governance Officer, Group Chief Legal Officer and Group 
Head of Internal Audit are standing attendees at GRC meetings. The 
Chair and members of the GRC also hold private meetings with the 
Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, the Group Head of Strategy 
and Corporate Development, the Group Head of Internal Audit and the 
external auditor, PwC, following scheduled GRC meetings.
The participation of our senior business leaders, including the Group 
CEO who attended five scheduled GRC meetings in 2024, and the 
chief executive officers of the three global businesses reaffirmed the 
ownership of, and accountability for, risks in the first line of defence.
Outside of formal meetings, the Chair meets regularly with the Group 
Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, and, where appropriate, members 
of senior management, to discuss priorities and track progress on key 
actions. The Chair also meets regularly with the GRC Secretary to 
ensure the GRC addresses its governance responsibilities. A 
summary of coverage is set out in the ’Matters considered during 
2024’ table.
Matters considered during 2024
Jan2
Feb
Mar2
May
Jun
Jul
Sep
Dec
Holistic enterprise risk monitoring including 
Group risk profile1
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Risk framework and policies 
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Treasury and traded risk
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Wholesale/retail credit risk
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Financial reporting risk
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Resilience risk (including IT and operational risk)
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Financial crime risk
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
People and conduct risk
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Regulatory compliance risk
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Legal risk
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Model risk
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Climate risk
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Strategic risk
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u Matter considered
u Matter not considered
1 The GRC receives updates on all risk types through the Group risk profile, which is presented to all regular meetings.
2 The January and March meetings are ad hoc meetings with a reduced agenda.
How the Committee discharged its responsibilities
Activities outside formal meetings
The GRC held a number of meetings outside its regular schedule to 
facilitate deeper and more effective oversight of the risks impacting 
the Group. Areas covered included ICAAP and ILAAP preparations, 
interest rate risk in the banking book, operational resilience and model 
risk management, as well as briefings on the Resolvability 
Assessment Framework and the Group Risk Appetite Framework. 
Further details of these sessions are included in the ’Principal 
activities and significant issues considered during 2024’ table starting 
on page 273.
Connectivity with principal subsidiary risk 
committees 
During 2024, the GRC continued to actively engage with principal 
subsidiary risk committees through the scheduled participation of 
principal subsidiary risk committee chairs at relevant GRC meetings, and 
through regular connectivity meetings with the principal subsidiary risk 
committee chairs. These meetings are also attended by the Group Chief 
Risk and Compliance Officer. This participation and connectivity 
promoted the sharing of information and best practices between the 
GRC and principal subsidiary risk committees, as well as encouraging 
director relationships. Principal subsidiary risk committee chairs were 
invited to attend a joint meeting between the GRC and the GAC in order 
that a consistent message on changes to committee responsibilities 
with regards to internal controls was received. 
The GRC has also received certifications from the principal subsidiary 
risk committees, confirming that management had been challenged on 
the quality of the information provided, the committees had reviewed 
the actions proposed by management to address any emerging issues 
and that risk management and internal control systems had been 
operating effectively. 
These interactions furthered the GRC’s understanding of the risk profile 
of the principal subsidiaries, leading to more comprehensive review and 
challenge by the GRC. 
Collaborative oversight by the GRC, GAC, 
Group Technology and Operations Committee 
(’GTOC’) and Group Remuneration Committee 
(’RemCo’)
The GRC worked closely with the GAC and the GTOC to address any 
areas of significant overlap, and to oversee risk and controls more 
comprehensively through inter-committee communications and joint 
meetings. 
The GRC and the GAC convened on one occasion to consider a range 
of issues, including changes being made to how each committee 
manages and oversees internal controls.
The GRC and GTOC worked closely to ensure appropriate alignment 
in the review, discussion, challenge and conclusions on topics 
including risk and control issues relating to digital assets and 
currencies, the Group's data strategy, artificial intelligence and 
cybersecurity. This ensured that the committees benefited from each 
other’s expertise and challenge. 
Coordination between the GRC, GAC and the GTOC is supported by 
cross-membership. The GRC Chair attends the GAC, the GTOC Chair 
attends the GRC, and the GAC Chair attends both the GTOC and 
GRC, strengthening connectivity and the flow of information between 
the committees.
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
272
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The GRC and Group RemCo work collaboratively to consider risk adjustment to the variable pay pool as part of the Group reward process, given 
the integral nature of risk management to the Group’s performance culture. This year, the committee has also considered improvements to the 
Risk and Reward framework.
Holistic 
enterprise risk 
monitoring, 
including Group 
risk profile
Macroeconomic, geopolitical and other emerging 
risks have the potential to present significant 
challenges to revenue growth, operational resilience 
and our commitment to serve customers and local 
markets. 
–
The GRC closely monitored geopolitical and macroeconomic risks that could impact 
the Group’s strategy, business performance or operations. These risks were 
exacerbated by ongoing conflict between Russia-Ukraine, the Israel-Hamas conflict 
and rising political tensions between the US and China. The resulting sanctions risk 
from these events has required significant focus and oversight by the Committee. 
While market sentiment and economic growth had been more positive than forecast, 
the real estate sector continued to experience pressure, particularly in mainland 
China and Hong Kong.
–
The GRC continued to track top and emerging risks, our risk appetite and other 
management information metrics, as well as other early warning measures to 
understand sensitivities and the likelihood of the potential impact to our operations, 
customers and stakeholders. The GRC provided oversight and challenge of a robust 
book of strategic management actions to respond to potential downside scenarios. 
–
The GRC requested reports on the risk profile of key business areas in local 
geographies and invited principal subsidiary chairs and relevant management to 
attend and participate in discussions.
Risk framework 
and policies
Effective risk management policies, frameworks, 
appetites and thresholds, and oversight of these, are 
essential for HSBC to safely, consistently and 
sustainably support customers, manage risk and 
deliver strategic aims.
–
The Group has a risk appetite statement to define risk appetite and tolerance 
thresholds, which forms the basis of the risk management procedures for the first 
and second lines of defence, the Group’s capacity and capabilities to support 
customers, and the achievement of strategic goals. The GRC maintained oversight of 
the Group’s risk appetite framework, reviewing changes to the Group’s risk appetite 
statements and recommending these to the Board for approval. This year's update to 
the risk appetite statement was focused on providing essential coverage of the key 
risks facing the Group and setting thresholds that reflected its desired risk profile for 
these risks. A review of the Group risk appetite framework was also undertaken to 
assess the dimensions of the framework and consider principles and approaches to 
support effective and consistent appetite setting for the Group’s broader business 
strategy. Areas of proposed improvement included: expanding assessments against 
appetite to an evaluation-based risk appetite that considers the entire risk profile; and 
enhancing Board-level overall statements to explicitly define the Group’s targeted 
appetite and the risks outside of appetite or tolerance, as well as qualitative context.
–
The GRC met with the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer and the Global Head 
of Enterprise Risk Management individually to ensure clarity and understanding of 
the changes being proposed, and how the improved design would support better 
outcomes for the Group. The framework has been validated by Oliver Wyman and 
brings the risk appetite framework into line with industry peers.
–
The GRC also reviewed and approved proposed annual updates to HSBC’s Risk 
Management Framework, providing a standardised, Group-wide approach to the 
identification, treatment and reporting of risk.
Treasury risk
It is essential that capital and liquidity risk is 
monitored effectively, and the Group takes active 
steps to maintain its capital and liquidity positions. 
Regular stress testing is undertaken to ascertain the 
Group’s operation when under stress. Developing 
action plans and guardrails to cover scenarios of 
recovery or resolution at a subsidiary or Group level 
is an essential part of HSBC’s prudential 
management.
–
The Group proactively tracks and maintains safeguarding of its capital and liquidity 
positions. It performs internal and regulatory stress tests to measure resilience and 
performance against a range of stress scenarios, and to challenge the strategic 
management actions that could be applied against anticipated stress events and 
headwinds.
–
The GRC conducted its annual review and challenge of the Group’s ICAAP and ILAAP, 
and provided its recommendation to the Board for approval. The GRC continued to 
monitor Interest Rate Risk in the Banking Book (’IRRBB’) sensitivity, structural hedging 
strategy and the ongoing activities to develop the Group’s capabilities for internal 
reporting and enhanced external disclosures. An education session on IRRBB was held 
in April to provide the Committee with the Group’s latest position, context around the 
regulatory feedback and an overview of the different components of IRRBB.
–
The GRC reviewed the Group’s ongoing activities to identify, manage and mitigate 
treasury, capital and liquidity risks, including early warning indicators, sensitivity 
analysis, capital and liquidity reporting and adequacy. 
–
In relation to stress testing exercises, the GRC reviewed the Group Recovery Plan 
stress scenarios in March and September. The GRC also considered the Group-wide 
internal stress test, scenarios and outputs, which contribute to the Group’s 
commitment to regularly test the resilience of the balance sheet and profit and loss 
under multiple scenarios of varying severity. An internal climate scenario analysis was 
undertaken, with results presented in February 2024.
–
As part of its regulatory obligations, the Group is required to show how its recovery 
and resolution strategies could be executed effectively and identify any risks to 
successful implementation. The GRC continued its oversight of the Group’s progress in 
maintaining and developing its capabilities under the Bank of England’s requirements 
for resolvability. The GRC has been regularly updated on the Group’s implementation 
of the PRA’s Trading Activity Wind Down requirements in preparation for the March 
2025 deadline, which will require the Group to have implemented a set of capabilities 
that will allow the execution of a full or partial wind down of its trading activities in an 
orderly fashion. In March 2024, the GRC reviewed the Resolvability Assessment 
Framework public disclosure and made a recommendation to the Board for approval. In 
June 2024, management presented the 2024 Group Recovery Plan ahead of its 
submission to the PRA in June. The plan was also recommended to the Board for 
approval. The Chairs of the GRC and the GAC both received comprehensive briefings 
prior to the presentation of both submissions. 
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2024
Risk areas
Key issues
Conclusions and actions
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
273
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2024 (continued)
Risk areas
Key issues
Conclusions and actions
Model risk
HSBC can face risks from inappropriate or incorrect 
business decisions arising from the use of models 
that have been inadequately designed, implemented 
or used, or do not perform in line with expectations 
and predictions.
–
The GRC has had significant engagement on model risk management due to the 
release of Supervisory Statement (SS) 1/23 – ‘Model risk management principles for 
banks’ in 2023, and the required remediation in order to be in compliance with the 
PRA’s new expectations. The GRC has overseen revisions to the model risk policy 
and framework, plus the self-assessment exercise required by the statement. In 
addition, a separate education session was held in July, providing an in-depth 
overview of model risk, how models are used within the business, and with a 
specific focus on Wholesale IRB Models and the data challenges. 
Resilience / 
Operational risk
A failure in resilience could lead to a situation where 
HSBC customers might suffer significant disruption 
to services or loss of data. 
Technology risks (including cybersecurity) could 
cause unmanaged disruption to any IT system within 
HSBC, as a result of malicious acts, accidental 
actions, poor IT practice, or IT system failure.
–
The GRC continued its oversight of the Group’s implementation of operational 
resilience capabilities in line with PRA and FCA policies. The GRC reviewed and 
challenged the operational resilience self-assessment against regulatory expectations 
and was briefed on the methodology used to identify vulnerabilities from the 
mapping and testing of Important Group Business Services and Entity Important 
Business Services in line with regulatory policy. An additional briefing session on 
operational resilience was held in June to prepare the Committee for the selfassessment in June. 
–
The GRC regularly reviewed reports on the Group’s technology risk profile, as well as 
receiving updates on cybersecurity risk. Reports have focused on the risk and control 
environment, as well as the current threat landscape and emerging risks. The GRC 
will continue to work with the Group Technology and Operations Committee to 
consider the risks and opportunities in the use of AI (generative and advanced) and 
digital assets and currencies in 2025.
–
The GRC continued with its strong focus on understanding the Group’s data risk 
landscape, its data strategy and data management programme. This has included the 
tracking of progress made against the Group’s data execution programme and 
timelines are being monitored closely. 
–
Third-party risk management received additional focus this year in light of a number 
of external incidents that had largely occurred due to the failure of third-party 
vendors. The GRC will continue this focus into 2025, working closely with the GTOC.
Wholesale/
retail credit risk
HSBC faces risk from the possibility of losses 
resulting from the failure of a counterparty to meet 
its agreed obligations to pay the Group. The 
commercial real estate sector has presented unique 
challenges for the wholesale credit risk portfolio, 
particularly for office properties.
–
The GRC received briefings on the macroeconomic and policy landscape impacting 
credit risk, both retail and commercial, and reviewed updates on the strategy and 
approach to managing credit risk and credit risk capabilities. The GRC received regular 
updates on the Group’s expected credit losses and provisions, and the credit risk 
arising from the wholesale portfolio and mortgage books. Throughout the year, the 
GRC focused on building even stronger credit capabilities for specialty sectors, 
including the continued implementation of the Country and Industry components of the 
Credit Risk Appetite Framework.
–
The GRC challenged on changes made to the Commercial Real Estate cap to ensure 
adequate control of the business, given commercial real estate is the largest corporate 
sector concentration in the wholesale portfolio. 
–
The GRC had oversight of the development of stronger portfolio management 
capabilities and further improving the Group’s credit risk culture. A key focus area 
continued to be maintaining appropriate tools and treatments available to our 
customers to support anyone experiencing financial difficulty, having the right people 
available to give the right advice and ensuring that conduct and good customer 
outcomes are first priorities.
Financial 
reporting risk
HSBC is exposed to risks where controls supporting 
the reporting of its financial statements are not 
effective, resulting in material error or misstatement
–
While the GAC has primary responsibility in relation to internal control systems 
(including financial controls), with further detail on page 265, the GRC receives reports 
on entity level control assessments to enable the oversight of the effectiveness of 
such controls in support of the Group’s financial reporting.
Financial crime 
risk
There is a risk that HSBC’s products and services 
could be exploited for criminal activity, including 
fraud, bribery and corruption, tax evasion, sanctions 
and export control violations, money laundering, 
terrorist financing and proliferation financing.
Insider threat also presents the risk that an individual 
with access to bank data, systems, infrastructure or 
finances could use that access to intentionally cause 
harm to the bank and its customers.
–
The GRC was updated regularly on the operation and effectiveness of the systems and 
controls pertaining to financial crime risk across geographies and businesses. This 
included reviewing updates to the Group’s financial crime policy, enhancing the 
approach to insider risk, and monitoring the fraud landscape and strategies for 
managing fraud risk.
–
Specific updates on Russia sanctions have been necessary with the ongoing conflict 
between Russia and Ukraine, in particular due to the increasing severity of US 
sanctions and the Group's unique global position in many of the affected markets. The 
GRC has been appraised of all management engagement with local governments and 
regulators in impacted regions. 
–
The GRC increased their focus on Insider Threat, as HSBC’s inherent risk has increased 
due to factors including cost-of-living challenges and inflation affecting markets, the 
potential impact of restructures on staff morale, and the inherent risks associated with 
growth. 
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
274
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2024 (continued)
Risk areas
Key issues
Conclusions and actions
People and 
conduct risk
People are central to everything HSBC does 
and it is essential to manage the risk of not 
having the right people with the right skills, 
and to ensure staff always have the 
customer’s interest at the forefront. 
Monitoring of conduct outcomes is integral to 
ensuring the needs of our customers are 
adequately met.
–
The GRC considered people risk issues with a focus on capacity, capability, culture and 
conduct. It also considered remuneration risks, and strategies to retain talent and acquire new 
capabilities in key areas, with a particular focus on approaches to maintain low attrition rates. 
–
The GRC now considers an Annual Conduct Update, further to the implementation of the 
Purpose Led Conduct Framework in 2023.
–
The GRC and Group RemCo met in September to consider improvements to the Risk and 
Reward framework. The proposed changes support better understanding of the risk factors 
used to drive performance assessments and how judgements made align to the application 
of the Risk Modifier. 
–
The GRC met in November to review the Group’s risk and reward alignment framework to 
promote sound and effective risk management in meeting PRA and FCA remuneration rules 
and expectations.
Regulatory 
compliance risk
As a result of operating in multiple 
jurisdictions globally, HSBC is exposed to risks 
associated with inappropriate market conduct 
or breaching related financial services 
regulatory standards or expectations. 
–
The GRC and its members actively engage with regulators and act on feedback. The 
Committee closely monitors the progress of regulatory remediation activities, with support 
from the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer as well as principal subsidiary risk 
committee chairs. Throughout the year, the GRC had oversight over reports providing 
feedback from regulators, including a summary of regulatory deliverables to ensure HSBC 
remains in line with regulatory standards and expectations.
–
The GRC also considered the 'Statement of Compliance' exercise, which is an assessment of 
Significant Regulatory Matters undertaken for principal subsidiary CEOs, providing an opinion 
as to how well managed these are and where gaps may exist. Further to a pilot undertaken in 
Mexico, this approach is now being rolled out across all principal subsidiaries.
Legal risk
HSBC is exposed to the risk of financial loss, 
legal or regulatory action resulting from 
contractual risk, dispute management risk, 
breach of competition law or intellectual 
property risk.
–
The GRC oversees and receives regular updates on key legal developments and material legal 
issues from the Group Chief Legal Officer. The updates also cover material litigation and 
regulatory enforcement matters and an overview of the legal risk profile of HSBC.
Climate risk
Environmental, social and governance risks 
present significant risks to organisations both 
in terms of their own operations and how they 
engage with stakeholders and communities.
–
The GRC remained focused on climate risk and greenwashing risk. The GRC received reports 
on climate risk management and sustainability risk policies, while maintaining oversight of 
delivery plans and risk appetite breaches to help ensure that the Group continues to develop 
and maintains robust climate risk management capabilities. Reputation risk considerations 
have also formed part of these discussions.
–
The GRC approved the 2024 internal climate scenario analysis in February 2024. The 
outcomes will be used to respond to multiple regional regulatory climate exercises as well as 
meeting regulatory expectations on incorporating climate change within the Group’s strategic 
plans and ICAAP.
Committee performance review 
2024/2025
In 2024 the annual review of the performance of the Board 
Committees, including the GRC, was conducted externally by IBE. On 
the basis of the review, Directors concluded that the GRC continued 
to operate effectively. 
Areas for enhancement were identified, including the need for: 
continued focus on paper quality and content to increase focus on the 
most significant enterprise and emerging risks; ongoing refinement of 
the GRC agenda to streamline and enable greater attention to 
strategic risk areas; continued additional educational and ‘deep dive’ 
sessions outside of the formal schedule of meetings to allow for 
greater debate, insights and learnings, coupled with other 
mechanisms to guide the scheduled Committee discussions; ongoing 
work with Management to ensure effective and timely follow up to 
Committee challenge. The collaboration across the GRC, GAC and 
GTOC agendas, via the Committee Chairs, will continue in 2025.
The outcomes of the performance review have been reported to the 
Board, and the GRC will track the progress in implementing 
recommendations during 2025.
Further details of the annual review of the Board and Committee 
effectiveness can be found on page 257.
Focus of future activities
The GRC’s focus for 2025 will include the following activities:
–
to continue to monitor the effective delivery of risk transformation
programmes and to seek assurance that the enhanced capabilities
have been fully embedded into the business;
–
to support the continued enhancement of the Group's risk appetite
and risk management frameworks further to the improvements
made in 2024, particularly in light of continued geopolitical and
macroeconomic headwinds;
–
to continue to assess the Group's operational resilience capability
and to track the completion of the programme of work required by
the PRA rules coming into effect in March 2025;
–
to continue to support and challenge the remediation activities
identified to enhance Model Risk Management capabilities in line
with SS 1/23;
–
to continue to oversee treasury risk to strengthen our capital and
liquidity management capabilities;
–
to continue the oversight of recovery and resolution planning
activities to assess our capabilities if such a situation arises, with
particular focus on our Trading Activity Wind Down obligations;
–
to monitor delivery against our climate ambitions and the
development of appropriate data and model management tools
and capabilities; and
–
to continue to oversee financial crime risk and the strengthening of
the financial crime control framework, including proactive
management by the business.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
275
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Group Technology and Operations 
Committee
“The Committee oversees all aspects of the Group’s technology and operations 
strategies, which enable the efficient provision of resilient, sustainable, and innovative 
products and services to our customers.“
Eileen Murray
Chair
Group Technology and Operations Committee
Membership
Key responsibilities
Member since
Meeting attendance 
in 20241
The GTOC has overall responsibility for the oversight of HSBC’s 
technology and operations strategies and alignment with the overall 
HSBC Group strategy, including global business and global function 
priorities. The GTOC’s key responsibilities include:
–
reviewing, challenging, and making recommendations to the 
Board on technology strategy and related matters; 
–
overseeing HSBC’s data strategy and framework;
–
overseeing HSBC’s cybersecurity strategy and framework; and
–
overseeing HSBC’s global operations, including payments, 
procurement, corporate real estate and operational resilience.
Eileen Murray (Chair)
Mar 2024
7/7
Steven Guggenheimer
Mar 2024
7/7
Kalpana Morparia2
Mar 2024
6/7
Brendan Nelson
Mar 2024
7/7
Swee Lian Teo
Mar 2024
7/7
1
These included seven scheduled meetings.
2 Kalpana Morparia was unable to attend the November meeting due to a 
prior commitment.
 
I am pleased to present the first report of the Group Technology and 
Operations Committee (‘GTOC’), which was established in March 
2024 as the Group Technology Committee with the responsibility for 
oversight of execution against the Group’s Technology strategy. In 
December 2024, the remit of the Committee was extended to also 
cover global operations, including payments, procurement, corporate 
real estate, and operational resilience, reflecting changes to the Group 
organisational structure and the importance of operations to delivery 
of the Group’s strategy. I would like to thank Steve Guggenheimer, 
Kalpana Morparia, Brendan Nelson and Swee Lian Teo, all of whom 
joined the Committee alongside me in March. Each director has 
brought their unique skills, experience and perspectives to the 
matters we have spent time on.
Since our first meeting in March 2024, a key area of oversight and 
focus has been oversight of the enterprise-wide programme 
established to simplify the Group’s technology infrastructure, enhance 
system resilience, and accelerate digital transformation across the 
bank. The GTOC has challenged management on its plans and 
prioritisation and has overseen progress in execution of what is a 
multi-year deliverable, seeking assurance from Risk and Global 
Internal Audit on the robustness of the approach. 
The GTOC has worked closely with management since its inception 
to reinforce and enhance the guardrails supporting technology 
investments and transformation, the tracking of benefits and 
outcomes, and to enhance accountability for delivery. It has received 
updates on key projects and programmes, and has considered the 
technology deliverables within our payments, core banking, and global 
private banking and wealth strategies.
 
The GTOC has also received regular updates on management’s 
programme to meet regulatory deliverables and address technologyrelated risk and control matters and we have again challenged the 
approach to prioritisation and delivery timelines.
Other areas of focus for the GTOC during the year have included the 
Group’s data and cybersecurity programmes. We provided input and 
challenge to management’s remediation plans and efforts to enhance 
technology, cybersecurity, and data metrics and key performance 
indicators. We also considered the innovation agenda, including 
opportunities in respect of artificial intelligence and digital assets.
To support engagement and connectivity across the Group on key 
technology matters, I invited observers from each of the four largest 
principal subsidiaries to join the GTOC meetings. We held two 
subsidiary-focused meetings during 2024, with a focus on operational 
resilience, including data and third-party risks. We discussed 
regulatory regimes across the different markets, progress against 
agreed timelines, challenges to meet expectations, and dependencies 
on Group-level programmes and deliverables.
In October 2024, the GTOC hosted a training session to which all 
Board members were invited, to hear external insights and 
perspectives on third-party suppliers, including key risks and trends.
 Further details on these and other areas of GTOC oversight during the year 
are set out below.
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
276
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Committee governance
The GTOC operates under delegated authority from the Board and 
advises the Board on matters concerning the Group’s technology and 
operations strategies and related matters. The GTOC Chair reports on 
the key matters and discussions at the subsequent Board meeting, 
and the Board also has access to the GTOC papers and receives 
copies of meeting agendas and minutes. 
The Group Chief Information Officer, Group Chief Operating Officer, 
Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, Global Head of Enterprise 
Risk Management, Group CFO, Group Head of Internal Audit, and the 
external auditor are standing attendees at GTOC meetings. The Chair 
and members of the GTOC also hold private meetings with the Group 
Chief Information Officer, Group Chief Operating Officer, Group Chief 
Risk and Compliance Officer, and Group Head of Internal Audit, as 
required.
The GTOC Chair meets regularly with the Group Chief Information 
Officer and Group Chief Operating Officer and other members of 
senior management, to discuss priorities and track progress on key 
actions. The Chair also meets regularly with the GTOC Secretary to 
ensure the GTOC addresses its governance responsibilities. A 
summary of coverage is set out in the ’Matters considered during 
2024’ table.
 
Matters considered during 2024
Mar
May
Jun
Jul
Sep
Nov
Dec
Technology
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Investment and transformation
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Resilience
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Innovation
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Cybersecurity
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Data
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Resource and capability
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u Matter considered
u Matter not considered
How the Committee discharged its responsibilities
Engagement outside formal meetings
The GTOC Chair held several meetings outside its regular schedule to 
facilitate deeper and more effective oversight of all key topics under 
its remit. The Chair regularly met with key stakeholders, including 
executives, programme sponsors, second and third line of defence, 
and independent third parties.
On 16 October 2024, KPMG held an education session on Third Party 
Management for the HSBC Holdings Board covering industry insights, 
trends, and the regulatory landscape. Further details of this and 
similar sessions are included in the ’Principal activities and significant 
issues considered during 2024’ table starting on page 277.
Connectivity with principal subsidiaries
Board members representing the four principal subsidiaries (UK, Asia, 
Europe and the US) are invited to attend the GTOC. As described 
above, two additional ‘GTOC - Principal Subsidiaries’ meetings were 
held covering Operational Resilience (resiliency challenges, regulatory 
requirements and action plans to address resilience issues). 
Collaborative oversight by the GTOC, GRC 
and GAC 
The GTOC worked closely with the GRC and the GAC to address any 
areas of significant overlap, and to oversee technology more 
comprehensively through inter-committee communications.
The committees worked closely to ensure appropriate alignment in 
the review, discussion, challenge, and conclusions on topics including 
technology, cybersecurity, data and innovation. This ensured that the 
committees benefited from each other’s expertise and challenge.
On 16 September 2024, members of the Group Technology, Group 
Risk and Group Remuneration Committees met to consider proposed 
changes to HSBC’s risk and reward alignment framework and to 
promote accountability for technology deliverables.
Coordination between the GTOC, GRC and the GAC is supported by 
cross-membership. The GTOC Chair attends the GRC, the GRC Chair 
attends the GAC, and the GAC Chair attends both the GTOC and 
GRC, strengthening connectivity and the flow of information between 
the committees.
Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2024
Area of focus
Key issues
Conclusions and actions
Technology 
strategy
There is Group-wide focus to 
implement the technology strategy. 
This requires clarity and alignment of 
priorities and collaboration across 
businesses, functions, and markets to 
deliver the most critical initiatives.
–
The GTOC regularly reviewed and challenged updates in relation to the technology strategy and the 
programmes in place to deliver. The committee oversaw and requested more granularity on 
timelines, the prioritisation approach, key risks, dependencies and challenges.
–
Additionally, the GTOC challenged that focus, funding and resource was being applied to enable the 
execution timelines to be met and requested assurances from Risk and Global Internal Audit on the 
robustness of the approach and progress being made.
Technology 
strategy: 
management 
information and 
KPIs
The Board and Board Committees rely 
on quality management information, 
KPIs and metrics to effectively 
oversee the areas under their remit.
–
The GTOC provided detailed feedback and insights on work to refine Board level metrics to ensure 
strong governance and accountability across technology, cybersecurity and data. Discussions 
included the calibration of quantifiable triggers and tolerance levels. 
Investment and 
transformation
A number of significant programmes 
with material technology components 
have been subject to replanning and/
or did not deliver the benefits 
expected.
–
The GTOC challenged management on the quality of business cases and provided inputs to the 
enhanced investment case framework, which has been refined to require:
–
articulation of risks and dependencies to ensure that these are well understood by 
management, and appropriately considered;
–
detailed insights on the opportunity and peer insights; and 
–
accurate and informed cost estimations.
Investment and 
transformation: 
Global Payments 
Solutions
Payments is a significant proposition 
for HSBC and is subject to an ongoing 
investment programme. 
–
The GTOC provided oversight of the Global Payments Solutions strategy, including the risk profile, 
effectiveness of the control environment, investment and expected benefits, and alignment of the 
current technology stack to the desired target state architecture. 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
277
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2024 (continued)
Area of focus
Key issues
Conclusions and actions
Investment and 
transformation: 
Global Private 
Banking and 
Wealth
GPB and Wealth is a significant 
proposition for HSBC and is subject to 
an ongoing investment programme.
–
The GTOC provided oversight of the Global Private Banking and Wealth strategy, including the risk 
profile, effectiveness of the control environment, investment and expected benefits, and alignment 
of the current technology stack to the desired target state architecture. 
Resilience
Operational resilience is a key priority 
for HSBC
–
The GTOC regularly discussed actions being taken to improve resiliency, including work to simplify the 
technology estate and to enhance controls to reduce service interruptions impacting customers.
–
In view of our reliance on services provided by third parties, the GTOC also reviewed the third-party risk 
management framework that is in place to monitor associated risks and identify and implement 
mitigating actions, and provided oversight of third-party related topics in relation to: regulatory feedback/
trends; technology and cybersecurity resilience; third-party security risk; spend and usage 
–
In addition, committee members met with principal subsidiaries to discuss resiliency challenges, 
regulatory requirements, and action plans to address resilience issues.
Innovation 
strategy
While AI, and particularly generative 
AI, is likely to provide much 
opportunity for the bank, the risks 
need to be understood and managed 
appropriately.
–
The GTOC has reviewed strategies to leverage the opportunities presented by innovation and new 
technologies, including in relation to digital assets and generative AI. These discussions set clear 
expectations with regard to risk, control and governance frameworks, enhancements (where required) 
and associated funding needs. 
Cybersecurity
Cybersecurity remains one of the 
most significant risks faced by the 
financial services industry.
–
The GTOC provided oversight of cybersecurity; receiving regular updates from the Group Chief 
Information Officer and Group Chief Information Security Officer relating to: key controls; service and 
resilience; the external threat environment; enhancements to metrics; and progress updates on key 
programmes. The Committee also discussed the impacts of cyber issues experienced by suppliers and 
challenged management on what additional actions could be taken to mitigate those risks.
–
The GTOC reviewed and challenged regular updates on the cybersecurity programme, including 
specific focus on the results of an industry-wide peer review and the timelines for ongoing 
enhancements to the cyber risk and control framework.
Data
Significant work is ongoing to develop 
the Group’s data strategy and deliver 
the data remediation programme.
–
The GTOC requested several specific updates on the Group’s data remediation programme, 
including on progress made, and challenges encountered, to meet regulatory commitments. 
Additionally, the Committee challenged to understand the assessment of the control landscape, 
residual risk and plans to mitigate, both short and long term. The GTOC challenged management to 
articulate a clear data strategy, and this will remain an area of material focus in 2025.
–
The Committee demonstrated oversight of the key priorities to implement improvements to the 
integrity of regulatory reporting; enhance data quality measures across priority processes; and meet 
regulatory commitments.
Resource and 
capability
Having the right skills and resources is 
critical to achieving our strategic 
ambitions.
–
The GTOC reviewed management's technology people and capability plans. Key resources, 
dependencies on subject matter experts, and future skills needs were also considered in respect of 
programme updates. 
Committee performance review
In 2024 the annual review of the effectiveness of the Board 
committees, including the GTOC, was conducted externally by IBE. 
On the basis of the review, directors concluded that the GTOC was 
operating effectively. 
Positive feedback was noted on the leadership of the GTOC Chair, the 
quality of information received, and the responsiveness of 
management in relation to the topics of focus during 2024. The 
review highlighted the importance of continued connectivity between 
the Board Committees, in particular the GTOC and GRC given the 
overlap of issues within their respective remits.
 Further details of the annual review of the Board and Committee 
performance can be found on pages 257 to 258.
Focus of future activities
The GTOC’s focus for 2025 will include the following activities:
–
Oversight and review of the Group's global operations strategy, 
including payments, procurement, corporate real estate and 
operational resilience;
–
continued oversight and review of the Group’s technology 
strategy, cybersecurity strategy and related matters;
–
continued oversight of key transformation programmes, with a 
particular focus on accountability;
–
continued focus on data remediation activities and management’s 
articulation of its data strategy, and the monitoring of progress to 
execute;
–
continued focus on the resilience of services; and 
–
continued consideration of technology innovation initiatives and 
how these might be leveraged in support of the Group strategy.
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Board committees
278
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Directors’ remuneration report
“Our new remuneration policy will support the delivery of our strategy and materially 
strengthen the alignment between performance, pay and shareholder interests.“
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn
Chair
Group Remuneration Committee
Membership
1
Key responsibilities
Member 
since
Meeting attendance 
in 2024
The Committee’s key responsibilities include:
–
making recommendations to the Board, for approval by 
shareholders, on the Group’s remuneration policy;
–
setting the overarching principles, parameters and governance 
framework of the Group’s remuneration policy;
–
approving the remuneration of executive Directors and other senior 
Group employees; and
–
regularly reviewing the effectiveness of the remuneration policy of 
the Group and its subsidiaries in the context of strategy, culture, 
conduct and effective risk management.
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn (Chair)
Sep 2021
9/9
Geraldine Buckingham
Jun 2022
9/9
Rachel Duan
Sep 2021
9/9
Ann Godbehere
Sep 2023
9/9
José Antonio Meade 
Kuribreña
May 2021
9/9
Kalpana Jaisingh Morparia2
Oct 2024
2/2
Eileen Murray
May 2023
9/9
1 All members of the Committee are independent non-executive Directors 
of HSBC Holdings plc.
2 Kalpana Jaisingh Morparia joined the Committee on 1 October 2024.
All disclosures in the Directors’ remuneration report are unaudited unless otherwise stated. Disclosures marked as audited should be 
considered audited in the context of financial statements taken as a whole.
Dear shareholders,
I am delighted to present our 2024 Directors’ remuneration report on 
behalf of the members of the Group Remuneration Committee (the 
’Committee’). I would like to thank Geraldine Buckingham for her 
valued contribution and to welcome Kalpana Morparia.
I also thank you, our shareholders, for your support of our 
remuneration resolutions at the 2024 Annual General Meeting 
(’AGM’). Our implementation of the current Directors’ remuneration 
policy and our resolution to provide the Committee with discretion to 
set an appropriate variable to fixed pay ratio received respectively 
over 97% and 99% of votes cast in favour.
The most significant item on the Committee's agenda this year was 
the review of the Directors’ remuneration policy. The changes and 
supporting rationale are set out over the following pages. We present 
the formal policy for shareholder approval before describing the key 
remuneration decisions for our executive Directors for 2024, our 
approach to wider workforce reward and Committee governance. 
Further information and disclosure is provided at the end of the report 
to meet our reporting obligations in the UK and Hong Kong.
2025 executive Director remuneration policy
Commencing in 2023, the Committee undertook a detailed review of 
the executive Directors’ remuneration policy to ensure it remains 
appropriate given the size and complexity of the Group, the talent 
market in which we compete and regulatory and best practice 
developments. 
We extensively engaged with major shareholders, representing 65% 
of those who voted at the 2024 AGM, and proxy advisory bodies. 
Shareholders were supportive of the proposals and understood the 
rationale for change. We received valuable feedback on our 
disclosure, which we have covered within this report. Our discussions 
focused on the need for stretching performance targets, and some 
individual shareholders had feedback on specific performance 
measures. The Committee carefully considered all feedback received, 
which has directly influenced final proposals.
Context for the review and overall remuneration structure
In 2014, as a result of European legislation (CRD IV), the Prudential 
Regulation Authority (’PRA’) and Financial Conduct Authority (’FCA’) 
introduced a 2:1 cap on the ratio between variable and fixed pay for 
material risk takers (’MRTs’). In response to this change, in line with 
other global banks operating in Europe, we introduced Fixed Pay 
Allowances (’FPAs’) so that HSBC could balance being competitive on 
a total compensation basis and complying with the remuneration 
rules. 
For our executive Directors, we converted part of their variable pay 
opportunity (annual incentive of 300% of salary and long-term 
incentive of 600% of salary) into new FPAs at an effective discount of 
50% to reflect the greater certainty of fixed pay. The change 
materially weakened the link between performance and pay and 
reduced the maximum total remuneration opportunity from 
£13,125,000 to £10,725,000 for the Group CEO and from £7,350,000 
to £6,000,000 for the Group CFO. The total opportunity has remained 
largely unchanged over the last decade, despite subsequent changes 
to the Directors’ remuneration policy and changes in incumbents and 
scope of the Group CFO role.
Over several years, the Committee has expressed concerns that the 
2:1 cap was having a material impact on the competitiveness of the 
executive Director remuneration opportunity at HSBC versus 
international peers.
Now that the 2:1 variable to fixed pay ratio has been removed by UK 
regulators, the Committee feels it is the right time to return to a 
remuneration structure with a higher proportion of variable pay linked 
to performance that is more closely aligned to the experience of our 
shareholders. This will also help address compression between the 
total compensation of our executive Directors and some of our Group 
Operating Committee roles.
We have received strong support from shareholders for our existing 
policy over many years, which we discussed in our recent 
engagement. In determining the new policy, the Committee 
considered several different incentive structures, recognising the 
diversity in approach among our global peers. This included more 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
279
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Group CEO
Pre-2014
2014 
Policy
2023 
Policy
Current 
(2024)
Group CFO
Pre-2014
2014 
Policy
2023 
Policy
Current 
(2024)
complex models such as hybrid structures, the use of restricted stock 
and retaining part of the FPA. These were ultimately rejected in the 
interests of simplicity and transparency, and a fundamental desire for 
pay to be linked to performance and shareholder value creation.
The Committee concluded that the current framework of an annual 
incentive and single performance-based long-term incentive is most 
appropriate. It is a simple and well understood structure and supports 
the delivery of our strategy and alignment with performance through 
the cycle.
Evolution of our maximum opportunity over time (£000)
 
£13,125 
£10,725 
£10,317 
£10,575 
£7,350 
£6,000 
£6,116 
£6,264 
Salary
FPA
Pension
Annual Incentive
Long-term Incentive
We propose to reverse the changes made in 2014 to increase the 
proportion of pay linked to long-term performance. This means 
removing FPAs in their entirety and resetting the maximum variable 
pay opportunity to 900% of salary, split between 300% in annual 
incentive and 600% in long-term incentive (‘LTI’). 
At this level, the LTI enables the Committee to target an appropriate 
maximum opportunity relative to peers with significantly less reliance 
on fixed pay. Specifically, the proposed structure reduces fixed pay by 
49% for the Group CEO and 51% for the Group CFO.
The Committee considered a lower maximum LTI opportunity for the 
Group CFO but decided against this, reflecting on the relative 
complexity of the Group CFO role at HSBC compared to other listed 
peers in the FTSE 30, practice at international banks, and internal pay
compression. We tested this with shareholders during our 
engagement who were largely supportive of the approach.
In line with current market practice and in direct response to investor 
feedback, we propose to increase the shareholding guideline to equal 
the LTI opportunity of 600% of salary for both the Group CEO and 
Group CFO.
The Committee also intends to implement a post-employment 
shareholding guideline in line with Investment Association guidelines, 
which will apply for two-years post cessation of employment.
Overall, the structure ensures that a significant portion of pay is tied 
to the creation of long-term, sustainable shareholder value. 
Shareholders we spoke to were supportive of the principle and 
simplicity of returning to our 2014 structure, reducing reliance on 
fixed pay and increasing the proportion of variable pay. 
2025 total remuneration opportunity
The Committee reflected on the appropriate maximum opportunity for 
the Group CEO and Group CFO considering (i) the maximum 
opportunity in 2014; (ii) market data for our international banking peers 
and the largest FTSE 30 companies; and (iii) internal pay compression 
challenges with members of the Group Operating Committee.
After considering these factors, which are described further below, 
the Committee determined the appropriate maximum opportunity for 
2025 should be £15,150,000 for the Group CEO role and £8,837,500 
for the Group CFO. 
Returning to the pre-2014 structure increases the proportion of pay 
subject to performance to 89%, compared to 69% under the current 
policy. This provides less certainty in pay outcomes with higher pay at 
maximum performance offset by lower pay for weaker performance. 
The Committee felt that a higher maximum opportunity was required 
to reflect the additional volatility given the lower fixed pay and reverse 
the reduction in total compensation when FPAs were introduced.
Group CEO payout under different performance scenarios (£m)
£10.6
£6.9
£5.1
£3.2
£15.15
£8.4
£5.0
£1.7
Maximum
Target
Minimum
Below 
Minimum
Maximum
Target
Minimum
Below 
Minimum
Group CEO maximum total compensation opportunity (£000)
Group CFO maximum total compensation opportunity (£000)
International banking peer group
Top 10 by market cap in FTSE 30
International banking peer group
Top 10 by market cap in FTSE 30
 (Stock ticker and ranking by market capitalisation)
£15,150
£13,125
£10,575
£0
£40,000
JPM (1)
MS (3)
CITI (5)
BAC (2)
UBS (6)
HSBC (4)
HSBC (4)
HSBC (4)
BARC (9)
DBK (11)
STAN (12)
LLOY (10)
DBS (7)
BNP (8)
£15,150
£13,125
£10,575
£0
£20,000
AZN (1)
HSBC (3)
SHEL (2)
GSK (10)
LSEG (9)
HSBC (3)
BP (7)
BAT (8)
ULVR (4)
RELX (6)
HSBC (3)
RIO (5)
£8,838
£7,350
£6,264
£0
£20,000
JPM (1)
CITI (5)
MS (3)
UBS (6)
BAC (2)
HSBC (4)
DBK (11)
HSBC (4)
HSBC (4)
BARC (9)
STAN (12)
LLOY (10)
£8,838
£7,350
£6,264
£0
£10,000
HSBC (3)
SHEL (2)
AZN (1)
GSK (10)
HSBC (3)
BP (7)
HSBC (3)
RIO (5)
ULVR (4)
LSEG (9)
RELX (6)
BAT (8)
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
280
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
n HSBC proposed n HSBC current 
n HSBC pre-2014 
Data source: Deloitte. 2024 total compensation is based on 2023 year-end disclosures. The market capitalisation ranking shown in brackets is based on a 3-month 
average as at 31 December 2024.
n Fixed pay n Variable pay
’Target’, ’Minimum’ and ’Below Minimum’ scenarios assume performance outcomes 
of 50%, 25% and 0% respectively for both the annual incentive and LTI.
Current
Proposed

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Group CEO target total compensation (£000)
Group CFO target total compensation (£000)
International banking peer group
Top 10 by market cap in FTSE 30
International banking peer group
Top 10 by market cap in FTSE 30
 (Stock ticker and ranking by market capitalisation)
£8,400
£7,500
£6,894
£0
£27,000
MS (3)
JPM (1)
CITI (5)
BAC (2)
UBS (6)
HSBC (4)
DBK (11)
HSBC (4)
HSBC (4)
BARC (9)
STAN (12)
LLOY (10)
DBS (7)
BNP (8)
£8,400
£7,500
£6,894
£0
£11,000
AZN (1)
HSBC (3)
SHEL (2)
HSBC (3)
LSEG (9)
ULVR (4)
BP (7)
HSBC (3)
BAT (8)
GSK (10)
RELX (6)
RIO (5)
£4,900
£4,200
£4,116
£0
£11,000
JPM (1)
MS (3)
CITI (5)
DBK (11)
BAC (2)
UBS (6)
HSBC (4)
HSBC (4)
HSBC (4)
BARC (9)
STAN (12)
LLOY (10)
£4,900
£4,200
£4,116
£0
£6,000
SHEL (2)
HSBC (3)
AZN (1)
HSBC (3)
HSBC (3)
GSK (10)
ULVR (4)
BP (7)
RELX (6)
RIO (5)
LSEG (9)
BAT (8)
Over several years, the Committee has seen increases to pay 
opportunities and changes to pay structures, which have further 
widened the gap between HSBC and some of our US and European 
banking peers. In determining the new policy, we have not targeted 
the quantum or structure of pay in US banks given the differences in 
market and business models compared to HSBC. However, we 
believe it is appropriate to narrow the gap to these roles as we recruit 
from this talent base across various levels of the organisation and this 
will help alleviate some of the challenges of pay compression.
HSBC is the third-largest company in the FTSE by market 
capitalisation, a proxy for the scale and complexity of the Group. 
Operating within 58 countries and territories and employing over 
211,000 full-time equivalent employees means that HSBC is also one 
of the most geographically diverse companies and one of the largest 
employers in the FTSE 30. The Committee believes that the 
maximum pay opportunities towards the upper end of the FTSE 30 
are reflective of the size and scope of HSBC. These also remain 
below the pay levels had the growth in median executive Director 
salaries observed amongst FTSE 30 companies over the last 10 years 
been applied to our 2014 maximum opportunities.
Compared to our international banking peers, the maximum pay 
opportunities place HSBC second amongst our European peers, and 
behind all comparable US roles. The Committee believe this is 
appropriate given HSBC is one of the largest banking and financial 
services organisations in the world, which is listed in the UK, whilst 
recognising the different pay environment in the US.
The Committee also reflected on the challenges of pay compression 
between the executive Directors and members of the Group 
Operating Committee in the context of succession planning, and 
considering pay outcomes and market benchmarks for each role. 
From 2021 to 2023, the expected total compensation of nearly a third 
of Group Executive Committee members was higher by on average 
30% than the Group CFO. The proposed maximum opportunity for 
the Group CFO helps to restore the pay differential expected by the 
market versus other senior roles, albeit a gap still remains.
2025 fixed pay
To achieve the increased maximum pay opportunity, base salary for 
Georges Elhedery will increase to £1,500,000, up 9%. Whilst this is 
higher than the average 2025 fixed pay increase of 2.9% for UK 
employees, overall fixed pay for Georges will reduce by 49% 
following removal of his FPA. 
Georges’ proposed salary remains behind the level we would expect 
had average UK wider workforce salary increases of 4% been applied 
since 2014, when the 2:1 cap was introduced. The average annual 
HSBC Group CEO salary increase over the same period was 1%.
Evolution of Group CEO salary over time (£000)
£1,250
£1,376
£1,500
Actual salary
If increased in line with UK wider workforce
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
We considered higher base salaries given the significant reduction in 
fixed pay but elected to keep the base salary increase lower, 
recognising wider cost of living challenges faced by colleagues and 
customers. This was a view shared by shareholders and reflects our 
disciplined approach to executive pay.
For Pam Kaur, base salary will increase to £875,000, up 9%. This 
enables a maximum pay opportunity reflecting the scale and 
complexity of the Group CFO role at HSBC and limits pay 
compression with comparable roles on our Group Operating 
Committee. Similar to Georges, though Pam’s salary increase is 
above the average fixed pay increase for UK employees, her overall 
fixed pay will reduce by 51% following removal of the FPA.
Subject to shareholder approval of the remuneration policy, salary 
increases for both Georges and Pam will be effective from 1 March 
2025, in line with the UK workforce.
Performance measures and targets
Our proposal represents a material change in structure and quantum, 
but this will only be realised if stretching performance targets are met 
and value is delivered for shareholders.
The Committee has undertaken a comprehensive review of the 
performance measures used for our incentive arrangements to 
ensure alignment to the Group’s priorities and balance delivery of 
financial and strategic performance. Performance targets and ranges 
have been set with stretch to reflect the increased pay opportunities. 
This topic has been a strong focus of policy discussions with 
shareholders and their views are reflected in our decisions.
For the 2025 annual incentive scorecard, we will:
–
Retain our core measures of PBT, Group RoTE and costs, each 
assessed excluding notable items, and introduce a measure on fee 
income growth relative to balance sheet growth to incentivise 
growth with less reliance on capital. 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
281
n HSBC proposed n HSBC current
n HSBC pre-2014 
Data source: Deloitte. 2024 total compensation based on 2023 year-end disclosures. 'Target' value of total compensation based on 50% of the maximum value for 
the annual incentive, or target value if disclosed; 50% of the maximum value for performance-based LTI; the maximum value of restricted shares; and one third of 
face value for share options. Market capitalisation ranking shown in brackets based on 3-month average as at 31 December 2024.
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

–
Reduce the weighting for PBT to 10% and remove Asia RoTE to 
reduce overlap with Group RoTE and simplify the scorecard. This 
change retains financial measures at 60% of the scorecard, which 
the Committee believes appropriately balances investor views 
with regulatory expectations for a balanced scorecard.
–
Maintain customer Net Promoter Score as a strategic measure to 
reflect our ambition to be a top-three bank for customer 
satisfaction and/or improve customer satisfaction rank. 
–
Include people and culture measures that support us in 
strengthening our inclusive culture of high-performance.
For the 2025–2027 LTI, we will:
–
Retain Group RoTE, relative total shareholder return (’TSR’) and 
environment measures. 
–
Increase the weighting of RoTE to 40%, reflecting that the delivery 
of a strong stable return on tangible equity is a core measure of 
the sustainable returns expected by our investors.
–
Increase the weighting of relative TSR to 40% as it is a key 
measure of shareholder returns, a material relative measure used 
by our peers and in line with investor expectations.
–
Reduce the weighting of the environment measure from 25% to 
20% following feedback from our shareholders on the metrics and 
targets used given the higher LTI opportunity, recognising that 
financed emissions targets remain difficult to include at this time. 
This ensures a greater proportion of the scorecard is aligned to 
value creation while supporting our ESG ambitions. 
We will not use financed emission targets for the 2025-2027 LTI 
awards given current challenges in methodology and the timeliness 
and frequency of reporting, which was generally accepted by the 
investors we spoke to. The Committee will keep this under review for 
future performance cycles.
Group RoTE is the only measure used in both our annual incentive 
and LTI scorecards, reflecting our focus on delivering sustainable 
returns and a strong preference for the measure by most 
shareholders. This ensures we incentivise capital productivity for the 
current year whilst supporting our external commitment to deliver 
sustainable returns and mid-teens RoTE over the medium-term.
We will continue to utilise a risk modifier and operate a judgementbased approach to adjustments for all risk and compliance matters, 
aligned to shareholder feedback and the expectations of our 
regulators. The Committee considers the application of the risk 
modifier each year and has applied it in three instances for our 
executive Directors since its introduction in 2021.
When setting performance targets, we consider our internal financial 
planning and strategy process, our strategic guidance and analyst 
consensus where available such that minimum, target, and maximum 
performance levels are set with stretch. This was a key focus of 
investors in our consultation, who recognised that our recent LTI 
targets have been set to deliver maximum payouts only for 
outperformance. The Committee remains committed to ensuring 
there is sufficient stretch in our targets in future years, which is 
demonstrated in the maximum RoTE target for the 2025-2027 LTI and 
illustrated below.
LTI Group RoTE performance range versus external guidance
External guidance
Minimum to Target
Target to Maximum
2025-2027 LTI
2024-2026 LTI
2023-2025 LTI
Changes in non-executive Director fees
The Board, excluding non-executive Directors, has reviewed the fees 
payable to non-executive Directors in the context of changes to the 
organisational structure. Following this review, it was considered that 
the fees payable for chairing or being a member of a Board 
Committee (excluding the Nomination & Corporate Governance 
Committee) should be increased to recognise the responsibilities and 
material additional time commitment associated with such a role. 
Giving due consideration to the highly regulated and complex industry 
in which HSBC operates, it was agreed to align the additional fee for 
chairing a Board Committee at £150,000 per annum (i.e., in line with 
the current fee for chairing the Group Risk Committee). The increase 
in the fee for chairing a Board Committee will be phased over two 
years, with an increase to £125,000 per annum for 2025, and a further 
increase to £150,000 per annum with effect from 1 January 2026. 
The Board also agreed increases to the additional fee for being a 
member of a Board Committee, and for the role of designated nonexecutive Director for workforce engagement to £50,000 per annum. 
These increases reflect the additional activity being undertaken during 
this period of organisational and cultural change. No other changes 
are proposed to non-executive Director fees for 2025.
Performance in 2024
Financial performance
Our financial performance in 2024 demonstrates that our strategy is 
working and is delivering strong returns for our shareholders.
We delivered a reported profit before tax of $32.3bn, up $2.0bn 
compared with 2023. This increase included a $1.0bn net favourable 
impact from notable items, which in 2024 included gains and losses 
relating to our disposals in Canada and Argentina. Constant currency 
profit before tax excluding notable items increased by $1.4bn to 
$34.1bn.
Reported revenue of $65.9bn was stable compared to 2023, despite a 
net adverse movement in gains and losses on our strategic 
transactions. This reflected higher customer activity in our Wealth 
products in WPB and in Equities and Securities Financing in GBM.
2024 costs on a target basis grew by around 5% in line with our 
targeted growth.
Our RoTE for 2024 was 14.6%, compared with 14.6% in 2023. 
Excluding notable items, RoTE was 16.0%.
The Board approved a fourth quarterly dividend of $0.36 per share, 
bringing the total dividend announced for 2024 to $0.87 per share. 
This includes the special dividend of $0.21 per share that was paid in 
June following the completion of the sale of HSBC Bank Canada. 
Furthermore, in respect of 2024 we announced three share buy-backs 
worth a total of $9bn, and today we have announced a further share 
buy-back of up to $2bn.
Strategic performance
We continue to make good progress in reshaping the Group. In 2024, 
we completed the sales of our retail banking operations in France, our 
banking business in Canada, and our businesses in Argentina, Russia 
and Armenia. We acquired SilkRoad Property Partners Group in 
Singapore and Citi’s retail wealth management portfolio in mainland 
China. We announced divestments in our private banking business in 
Germany and our business in South Africa, as well as the planned sale 
of our life insurance business in France. In October 2024, we 
announced a simplified organisational structure to accelerate delivery 
against our strategic priorities.
We continue to strengthen our scale positions in Hong Kong and the 
UK and drive strong profit generation in these businesses. We remain 
focused on our goal to become a digital-first bank and have continued 
to see growth in customer adoption of our digital services across all 
our businesses, which is reflected in our Net Promoter Scores.
Over 88% of colleagues participated in our 2024 Snapshot survey 
where our employee engagement index rose a further three 
percentage points to reach an all-time high of 80%, six percentage 
points above the global financial services benchmark.
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
282
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
15.5%
14.3%
13.0%
17.0%
16.0%
14.0%
14.0%
16.0%
18.0%
Mid-teens
12%+

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Key remuneration decisions for executive 
Directors
Executive Director changes
Sir Noel Quinn stepped down as Group CEO and as an executive 
Director of the Board on 2 September 2024 and was succeeded by 
Georges Elhedery. Pam Kaur was appointed Group CFO from 1 
January 2025. All remuneration decisions in respect of this change 
were made in accordance with our shareholder-approved policy.
Given his retirement from the Group on 30 April 2025, Sir Noel Quinn 
will be treated as a good leaver for the purpose of unvested incentive 
awards. He remained eligible for a 2024 annual incentive but will not 
receive an LTI award for the 2025–2027 performance period, nor will 
he be eligible for a 2025 annual incentive.
Annual incentive for 2024 performance
Scorecards were set at the start of the year to align with our reported 
financial performance, excluding the impact of strategic transactions 
and one-offs on the Group's financial performance in 2024. 
Georges Elhedery's formulaic scorecard outcome of 78.79% (2023: 
76.75%) results in an annual incentive outcome of £1,677,000 (2023: 
£1,287,000). This was calculated by applying respective formulaic 
scorecard outcomes to the pro-rated maximum opportunities for the 
Group CEO and Group CFO roles, based on the period spent in each 
role during 2024. 
The formulaic scorecard outcome for Sir Noel Quinn was 77.81% 
(2023: 75.93% pre risk adjustment, 70.24% post risk adjustment), 
which results in an annual incentive outcome of £1,540,000 (2023: 
£2,018,000), after pro-rating for his time as Group CEO during 2024.
Taking into account the Group’s performance against risk metrics, and 
inputs from the Group Risk Committee, the Committee used its 
judgement and applied no adjustment in respect of risk matters to 
executive Director annual incentive outcomes for 2024. 
2022–2024 LTI vesting
Georges Elhedery and Sir Noel Quinn participated in the 2022–2024 
LTI that will vest in March 2025.
The maximum RoTE and relative TSR targets were exceeded, 
reflecting the strong absolute and relative performance of the Group 
over the performance period. The capital reallocation to Asia measure 
was not met and performance against the environment measures 
exceeded the maximum target. 75% of the original award will vest on 
a pro-rata basis over the next five years.
2025–2027 LTI awards
The Committee intends to grant both Georges Elhedery and Pam Kaur 
the maximum 2025-2027 LTI award of 600% of base salary (Georges 
Elhedery: £9,000,000, Pam Kaur: £5,250,000), subject to shareholder 
approval of the LTI opportunity under the new policy.
The value realised from the award is subject to performance over the 
next three years and the award will vest over a further five years with 
a one-year retention period on vesting shares.
For further details, see ‘Long-term incentive (’LTI’) awards‘ on page 298.
Rewarding our colleagues
We are taking actions that improve our ability to attract, retain and 
energise colleagues to deliver high performance and growth.
In 2024, we changed our performance approach by simplifying ratings 
and focusing on better performance routines. In our Snapshot survey, 
87% of colleagues reported a clear understanding of what is expected 
of them and 77% confirmed at least two performance check-in 
conversations with their manager. We also introduced a new target 
variable pay plan, which covers over 150,000 colleagues in 46 
markets to increase transparency and differentiation of variable pay.
The Committee is encouraged by increasing pay sentiment year-onyear in most areas because of actions taken through 2023, which is 
expected to improve further following changes introduced in 2024.
For further details, see ‘Our approach to workforce reward‘ on page 301.
Fixed pay
We are pleased to be accredited as a global living wage employer in 
2025 and meet or exceed living wage benchmarks in all our markets. 
This gives confidence that we provide core financial security to 
colleagues through fixed pay, which is the largest part of most 
colleagues' reward.
Fixed pay is primarily reviewed through our annual pay cycle. Effective 
in 2025, we have awarded an overall fixed pay increase of 3.6%. The 
level of increases vary by market, depending on the economic 
situation and individual roles. The highest increases were made to 
lower paid colleagues relative to relevant market benchmarks.
Variable pay
The Committee determined total variable pay of $3,800m, broadly flat 
compared with the $3,774m awarded in 2023. This was determined 
based on a review of our performance against financial and nonfinancial metrics. We considered the strength of our financial 
performance in 2024 and the ratio between variable pay and prevariable pay profit before tax, the Group’s performance against key 
risk and compliance metrics, and our total compensation position 
compared with market and the broader economic outlook.
Total compensation across all our businesses increased relative to 
2023, rewarding our colleagues for their contribution to our 
performance. Distribution of variable pay by business considered 
relative performance against RoTE, reported profit before tax and cost 
targets, and performance against risk and compliance metrics. Strong 
differentiation has meant our highest performers received the largest 
increases in variable pay compared with the previous year. 
Ex-post risk adjustments were made to the variable pay of relevant 
individuals for material risk events over 2024. This included 
adjustments for some individuals following the conclusion of the 
investigation into the PRA’s 29 January 2024 Notice for historic 
depositor protection failings arising in HSBC Bank plc and HSBC UK 
Bank plc and the Committee now considers this matter closed.
Other remuneration matters
HSBC's variable to fixed pay ratio
Following shareholder approval at the 2024 AGM, the Committee 
reviewed several options to set new pay ratios and concluded that a 
single overall ratio of 10:1 was most appropriate, supported by 
internal guidance to manage expectations on its application. The ratio 
will apply across the Group, where permitted by regulation. 
The ratio will support us to materially strengthen alignment of pay and 
performance in our executive Directors’ remuneration policy. The ratio 
has limited impact on the wider workforce and is higher than we 
intend on using in practice. However, the new cap gives us flexibility 
to reward extraordinary individual performance delivered by a small 
number of employees in frontline roles.
We will continue to keep our pay principles and approach under 
review, monitoring market developments and competitiveness, to 
increase the proportion of pay for performance over time.
PRA/FCA consultation on UK remuneration rules
The Committee welcomes the recent consultation announced by the 
PRA and FCA to review the UK remuneration rules to improve overall 
competitiveness of UK capital markets.
We have introduced a degree of flexibility into our policy to ensure it 
remains competitive against peers once the final rules are known. 
Any changes made would always be in line with the key principles 
used by the Committee when setting the policy. We would engage 
with major shareholders ahead of making any material changes, and 
provide clear and comprehensive disclosure in our Annual Report and 
Accounts.
We remain supportive of the use of deferral mechanisms and will 
continue to deliver a substantial portion of variable pay in shares to 
ensure alignment between shareholder interests, good risk 
management and individual reward. Our policy commits to a weighted 
average time horizon of at least five years for the deferral period of 
LTI awards, in line with UK Corporate Governance requirements.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
283
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Plan limits under Share Plan 2011
The rules of the HSBC Share Plan 2011 currently include an annual 
individual limit on awards of 600% of salary, based on the market 
value of shares.
LTI awards are not eligible to receive dividend equivalents to comply 
with regulatory requirements. Consistent with our disclosed practice 
since 2017 when the regulatory change came into force, the number 
of shares awarded is calculated using a share price discounted for the 
expected dividend yield over the vesting period. The market value of 
the proposed LTI award would therefore exceed 600% of base salary.
Amending this limit to reflect the fair value of shares (defined in 
accordance with relevant accounting standards) will enable the 
Committee to grant up to the maximum award under the new policy. 
Shareholder support for this change will be sought at the 2025 AGM.
Conclusion
On behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank our shareholders 
for the time taken to engage with us and their valuable feedback as 
we developed our new policy. We are committed to regular 
engagement and I look forward to further dialogue in the year ahead.
As Chair of the Committee, I hope you will support the 2024 
Directors’ remuneration report, our new Directors’ remuneration 
policy and the amendment to plan limits under Share Plan 2011 at this 
year's AGM.
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn
Chair
Group Remuneration Committee
19 February 2025
2024 executive remuneration at a glance
This section sets out an overview of our performance and 2024 remuneration outcomes for executive Directors. 
Our performance 
Reported profit before tax
$32.3bn 
(2023: $30.3bn)
Operating expenses
$33.0bn
(2023: $32.1bn)
Target basis operating 
expenses up 5% to $32.6bn
Return on average tangible 
equity 
14.6%
(2023: 14.6%)
Return on average tangible equity 
excluding notable items of 16.0% 
(2023: 16.2%) 
HK customer net promoter score 
in WPB and CMB relative to peers
1st 
(2023: WPB: 3rd; CMB: 1st)
Employee engagement 
index
80% 
(2023: 77%)
Inclusion index
78% 
(2023: 78%)
Percentage of women in senior 
leadership roles
34.6%
(2023: 34.1%)
Percentage of colleagues of Asian 
heritage in senior leadership roles
39.3%
(2023: 37.8%)
Remuneration outcomes for executive Directors
Summary remuneration outcomes for 2024 are set out below. Further details are set out in our annual report on Directors‘ remuneration on 
pages 296 to 298. 
Sir Noel Quinn
Georges Elhedery
Annual incentive outcome (£000)
£1,980
£1,540
77.81%
£2,134
£1,677
78.79%
Long-term incentive (LTI) outcome (£000)
£5,298
£4,131
£3,968
£1,330
Vesting long-term incentive
Share price appreciation
on long-term incentive
£1,207
£941
£904
£303
Vesting long-term incentive
Share price appreciation
on long-term incentive
Single total figure of remuneration (£000)
£9,164 
£10,641 
Base salary and fixed pay allowance
Pension and benefits
Annual incentive
Long-term incentive
Notional returns on deferred cash
awarded in respect of prior role
£5,364
£3,292
Base salary and fixed pay allowance
Pension and benefits
Annual incentive
Long-term incentive
Notional returns on deferred cash
awarded in respect of prior role
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
284
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
Maximum opportunity
2024 annual incentive
Maximum opportunity
2024 annual incentive1
Maximum opportunity
2022–2024 LTI
2024
2023
Maximum opportunity2
2022–2024 LTI
2024
2023
1
Calculated based on Group CFO and Group CEO scorecard outcomes 
applied to the respective salary for each role.
2 Received in prior role as Co-CEO, GBM.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

CEO 
Current
1
CFO
Current
1
CEO/CFO 
Proposed
1
Current
Proposed
CEO 
Current
CEO 
Proposed
CFO 
Current
CFO 
Proposed
Current
Proposed
Current
Current
Current
Current
Proposed
Proposed
Proposed
Proposed
Directors’ remuneration policy
This section sets outs the Directors’ remuneration policy proposed for 
shareholders' approval at the AGM on 2 May 2025.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing and recommending to 
the Board the Directors’ remuneration policy for shareholder approval. 
The policy is intended to apply for three years to the end of the AGM 
in 2028, although we may seek shareholders’ approval for a new 
policy during the period depending on regulatory developments, 
changes to our strategy or competitive pressures.
Remuneration policy – key principles
The Committee determined the policy using the following key 
principles:
–
The rationale and operation of the policy should be easy to
understand and transparent.
–
There should be a strong alignment between reward and the
interests of our stakeholders, including shareholders, customers
and employees.
–
The policy should maintain a focus on long-term performance.
–
Total remuneration should be competitive to ensure we can retain
and attract talent to deliver our strategic priorities.
–
The structure should meet the expectations of investors and our
regulators.
Setting the policy
The Committee reviewed the Director’s remuneration policy in the 
context of significant regulatory change following removal of the 2:1 
variable to fixed pay ratio. Input was received from the Group 
Chairman and management while ensuring that conflicts of interest 
were suitably mitigated. Input was provided by the Committee’s 
appointed independent advisers throughout the process. 
Key changes to the policy as a result of this review include:
–
removal of Fixed Pay Allowances.
–
an increase in the maximum opportunity of the annual and longterm incentives.
–
an increase in shareholding guidelines and the introduction of a
post-cessation shareholding guideline.
We extensively engaged with major shareholders, representing 65% 
of those who voted at the 2024 AGM, and proxy advisory bodies. The 
Committee carefully considered all feedback received, which has 
directly influenced the final proposal.
Full detail on the context for the review, the Committee's key 
considerations, including how the Committee has responded to 
shareholder feedback, is provided in the Chair's letter on pages 279 to 
284.
Remuneration policy at a glance
This section sets out the key changes in our Directors’ remuneration policy and our proposed implementation for 2025.
Policy structure
Total remuneration mix
Maximum total remuneration opportunity (£000)
Base salary
Fixed Pay Allowance
Pension
Annual incentive
Long-term incentive
£10,575
£15,150
£6,264
£8,838
Fixed
Variable
Fixed pay - 2025 implementation (£000)
Georges Elhedery
Pam Kaur
£3,214 
£1,650 
Salary
FPA
Pension
£1,968 
£963 
Salary
FPA
Pension
Variable pay
Annual incentive opportunity
Long-term incentive opportunity
Shareholding requirement
Group CEO
Group CFO
215%
300%
320%
600%
400%
600%
300%
600%
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
285
13%
16%
28%
42%
10%
30%
59%
13%
17%
28%
41%
1
Pension accounts for 1% of the total remuneration mix.
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Remuneration policy – executive Directors
Fixed pay
Elements
Details
Base salary
To attract, retain and develop key talent by being market competitive and rewarding ongoing contribution to role.
Operation
– The base salary for an executive Director is designed to reflect the individual’s role, experience and responsibility. 
– Base salaries are normally reviewed on an annual basis against relevant comparator groups and may be reviewed more frequently 
at the discretion of the Committee.
Maximum opportunity
– No maximum opportunity.
– Increases may be made at the Committee’s discretion, taking into consideration factors such as increases to scope and 
responsibilities of the role, development of the individual within the role, salary increases for the wider workforce and 
competitiveness against market.
Cash in lieu of pension
To help executive Directors build retirement savings.
Operation
– Directors receive a cash allowance in lieu of a pension entitlement.
Maximum opportunity
– The maximum opportunity will be aligned with the maximum contribution rate that HSBC could make for the majority of employees 
in the relevant jurisdiction. This is currently set at 10% of base salary in line with the maximum contribution rate, as a percentage of 
salary, that HSBC could make for a majority of employees who are defined contribution members of the HSBC Bank (UK) pension 
scheme in the UK.
Benefits and all employee share plans
Elements
Details
Benefits
To provide support for physical, mental and financial health in accordance with local market practice.
Operation
Benefits take account of local market practice and include, but are not restricted to:
– taxable benefits (gross value before payment of tax) including provision of medical insurance, accommodation, car, club 
membership, independent legal advice in relation to a matter arising out of the performance of employment duties for HSBC, tax 
return assistance or preparation, and travel assistance (including any associated tax due, where applicable); and
– non-taxable benefits including the provision of a health assessment, life assurance and other insurance coverage.
Additional benefits may also be provided when an executive is relocated or spends a substantial proportion of their time in more than 
one jurisdiction for business needs, or in such other circumstances as the Committee may determine in its discretion. Such benefits 
could include, but are not restricted to, airfare, accommodation, shipment, storage, utilities, and any tax and social security that may 
be due in respect of such benefits.
Maximum opportunity
– No maximum opportunity.
– The maximum value is determined by the nature of the benefit provided. The benefit amount will be disclosed in the single total 
figure of remuneration table for the relevant year.
All employee share plans
To promote share ownership by all employees.
Operation
– Executive Directors are entitled to participate in all employee share plans, such as HSBC Sharesave, on the same basis as all other 
employees in the relevant jurisdiction.
– Under Sharesave, executive Directors can make monthly savings over a period of three or five years towards the grant of an option 
over HSBC shares. The option price can be at a discount, currently up to 20%, on the share price at the time the option is granted.
Maximum opportunity
– The maximum number of options is determined by the maximum savings limit set by HM Revenue and Customs. This is currently 
£500 per month. 
– Executive Directors may also receive additional share options at no extra cost via the Sharesave bonus mechanism, with applicable 
rates set by HM Revenue and Customs.
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
286
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Variable pay 
Adhering to HSBC’s values-aligned behaviours and conduct standards is a prerequisite to be considered for variable pay. Executive Directors 
receive an overall performance assessment that considers performance against goals and role expectations, and demonstration of our valuesaligned behaviours. This is considered by the Committee when applying discretion to the formulaic scorecard outcomes.
Elements
Details
Annual incentive
To drive and reward performance against annual financial and non-financial objectives that are consistent with the strategy and align 
to shareholder interests.
Operation
Annual incentive awards are discretionary and can be delivered in any combination of cash and shares under the HSBC Share Plan 
2011 (‘HSBC Share Plan’). Shares will not normally represent less than 50% of any award and are normally immediately vested.
On vesting, shares equivalent to the net number of shares that vested (after those sold to cover any income tax and social security 
payable) must be held for a retention period up to one year, or such other period as may be expected by regulators.
The awards will be subject to clawback (i.e. repayment or recoupment of paid/vested awards) on or after vesting for a period of seven 
years from the date of award, or such other period as required by regulators. This may be extended to 10 years, or such other period 
as required by regulators in the event of an ongoing internal/regulatory investigation at the end of the seven-year period. Details of the 
clawback provision are set out in the bottom section of this table. 
Any deferred shares may be entitled to dividend equivalents during the vesting period, which will be paid on vesting. Where awards 
do not receive dividend equivalents during the vesting period (to meet regulatory requirements), the number of shares to be awarded 
will be determined using a fair value share price (defined in accordance with relevant accounting standards) discounted for the 
expected dividend yield.
Any deferred cash award may be entitled to notional returns during the deferral period, or any appropriate adjustment to reflect such 
notional returns, as determined by the Committee.
The Committee retains discretion to:
– apply a longer retention period;
– increase the proportion of the award to be delivered in shares; or
– defer the vesting of a portion of the awards, subject to such conditions that the Committee may determine at its discretion (which 
may include continued employment). The deferred awards will be subject to malus (i.e. reduction and/or cancellation of unvested 
awards) provisions during any applicable deferral period.
The Committee also retains discretion to amend the structure and terms of awards to reflect changes in regulatory requirements 
whilst ensuring that any changes will align with the key principles of the Directors' remuneration policy.
The Committee may adjust and amend awards in accordance with the relevant plan rules.
Maximum opportunity
The maximum opportunity for the annual incentive award in respect of a financial year is up to 300% of base salary.
Performance measures
Performance is normally measured against an annual scorecard, based on targets set for financial and non-financial measures, 
determined at the beginning of the financial year. The scorecards may vary by individual.
Measures with financial targets will generally have a weighting of 60% for both the Group CEO and the Group CFO. The Committee 
will review the scorecard annually and may vary the measures, weighting and targets each year. 
The overall payout of the annual incentive could be between 0% (for below minimum performance) and 100% of the maximum 
opportunity.
Minimum and maximum performance levels for each measure are defined in the scorecard. 25% of the award opportunity will pay 
out for achieving minimum performance and 100% of the award will pay out for achieving maximum performance. Details on payout 
between these levels will be disclosed in the respective Directors' Remuneration Report.
The Committee exercises its judgement to determine performance achieved and awards at the end of the performance period, which 
in normal circumstances will be one financial year, to ensure that the outcome is fair in the context of overall Group and individual 
performance. The Committee can adjust the payout based on the outcome of the performance measures, if it considers that the 
payout determined does not appropriately reflect the overall position and performance of the Group for the relevant performance 
period.
The scorecard outcome may also be subject to a risk and compliance modifier and/or a capital underpin under which the Committee 
will have the discretion to adjust down the overall scorecard outcome, taking into account performance against those factors. 
The Committee has the discretion to:
– change the overall weighting of the financial and non-financial measures, whilst ensuring the overall balance remains appropriate;
– vary the measures and their respective weightings within each category. The specific performance measures will be disclosed in 
the ‘annual report on remuneration’ for the relevant year; and
– make adjustments to performance targets, measures, weightings and/or outcomes in exceptional circumstances. This may be to 
reflect significant one-off items that occur during the measurement period and/or where the Committee determines that original 
measures, targets or conditions are no longer appropriate or that amendment is required so that the measures, targets or 
conditions achieve their original purpose. Full and clear disclosure of any such adjustments will be made in the 'annual report on 
remuneration' for the relevant year, subject to commercial confidentiality.
Malus and clawback
(applicable to both annual 
incentive and LTI)
The Committee has the discretion to operate malus and clawback provisions.
Malus can be applied to unvested awards in circumstances including:
– detrimental conduct, including conduct that brings the business into disrepute;
– past performance being materially worse than originally reported;
– restatement, correction or amendment of any financial statements; and
– improper or inadequate risk management.
Clawback may be applied in circumstances including:
– participation in, or responsibility for, conduct that results in significant losses;
– failing to meet appropriate standards and propriety;
– reasonable evidence of misconduct or material error that would justify, or would have justified, summary termination of a contract 
of employment;
– a material failure of risk management suffered by HSBC or a business unit in the context of Group risk management standards, 
policies and procedures; and
– any other circumstances required by local regulatory obligations to which any member of the HSBC Group or its subsidiary is 
subject.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
287
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Elements
Details
Long-term incentives
(‘LTI’)
To incentivise sustainable long-term performance and alignment with shareholder interests.
Operation
LTI awards are discretionary and are granted if the Committee considers that there has been satisfactory performance over the prior 
year. The awards are granted as rights to receive shares under the HSBC Share Plan, normally subject to a forward-looking three-year 
performance period from the start of the financial year in which the awards are granted.
At the end of the performance period, the performance outcome will be used to assess the percentage of the awards that will vest. 
These shares will then normally vest in five equal instalments, with the first vesting on or around the third anniversary of the grant 
date and the last instalment vesting on or around the seventh anniversary of the grant date, in accordance with current UK 
remuneration rules.
On each vesting, shares equivalent to the net number of shares that vested (after those sold to cover any income tax and social 
security payable) must be held for a retention period up to one year (or such other period as may be permitted by regulators). 
Awards are subject to malus provisions prior to vesting. The awards will also be subject to clawback on or after vesting for a period of 
seven years from the date of award, or such other period as required by regulators. This may be extended to 10 years, or such other 
period as required by regulators, in the event of an ongoing internal/regulatory investigation at the end of the seven-year period. 
Details of the malus and clawback provisions are set out in the previous section on annual incentive awards.
Awards may be entitled to dividend equivalents during the vesting period, which will be paid on vesting. Where awards do not receive 
dividend equivalents during the vesting period (to meet regulatory requirements), the number of shares to be awarded will be 
determined using a fair value share price discounted for the expected dividend yield.
The Committee also retains discretion to amend the structure and terms of awards to reflect changes in regulatory requirements 
whilst ensuring that any changes will align with the key principles of the Directors' remuneration policy. In any event, we expect the 
weighted average time horizon of the deferral period to be at least five years.
The Committee may adjust or amend awards in accordance with the rules of the HSBC Share Plan.
Maximum opportunity
The maximum opportunity for the LTI award in respect of a financial year is up to 600% of base salary.
Performance measures
The Committee will take into consideration prior performance when assessing the value of the LTI grant. Forward-looking 
performance is measured against a long-term scorecard, determined at the start of the financial year in which awards are granted. 
Financial measures will generally have a weighting of 60% or more.
For each measure, the Committee will determine the extent of achievement based on actual performance against the target set and 
other relevant factors that the Committee considers appropriate to take account of in order to better reflect the Group's underlying 
performance. The overall payout level could be between 0% (for below minimum performance) and 100% of the maximum.
Minimum, target and maximum performance levels for each measure are defined in the scorecard. 25% of the award opportunity will 
vest for achieving minimum performance, 50% of the award will vest for achieving target performance and 100% of the award will 
vest for achieving maximum performance. Where performance achieved is between the minimum, target and maximum level of 
performance set in the scorecard, the number of awards that will vest will be determined on a straight-line basis.
The Committee can adjust the LTI payout based on the outcome of the performance measures, if it considers that the payout 
determined does not appropriately reflect the overall position and performance of the Group during the performance period.
The scorecard outcome may also be subject to a risk and compliance modifier and/or a capital underpin under which the Committee 
will have the discretion to adjust down the overall scorecard outcome, taking into account performance against those factors. 
Performance targets will normally be set annually for each three-year cycle. The Committee has the discretion to:
– change the overall weighting of the financial and non-financial measures, whilst ensuring the overall balance remains appropriate;
– vary the measures and their respective weightings within each category. The specific performance measures will be disclosed in 
the ‘annual report on remuneration’ for the relevant year;
– vary the risk and compliance and/or any underpin measures; and
– make adjustments to performance targets, measures, weightings and/or outcomes in exceptional circumstances. This may be to 
reflect significant one-off items that occur during the measurement period and/or where the Committee determines that original 
measures, targets or conditions are no longer appropriate or that an amendment is required so that the measures, targets or 
conditions achieve their original purpose. Revised targets/measures will be, in the opinion of the Committee, no less difficult to 
satisfy had they been set at the same time as the original targets. Full and clear disclosure of any such adjustments will be made 
within the 'annual report on remuneration' for the relevant year, subject to commercial confidentiality.
Other
Elements
Details
Shareholding guidelines
To ensure appropriate alignment with the interest of our shareholders.
Operation
Executive Directors are expected to satisfy the following shareholding requirement as a percentage of base salary within five years 
from the date of their appointment:
– Group CEO: 600%
– Group CFO: 600%
On cessation of employment, executive Directors will normally be required to maintain the minimum shareholding requirement for 
two years (or, if their actual shareholding is lower at the time of cessation, the actual shareholding upon departure). For this purpose, 
unvested shares which are not subject to forward-looking performance conditions (on a net of tax basis) will count towards the 
shareholding requirement. HSBC operates an anti-hedging policy under which individuals are not permitted to enter into any personal 
hedging strategies in relation to HSBC shares subject to a vesting and/or retention period.
Maximum opportunity
Not applicable.
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
288
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Committee discretion
The Committee welcomes the recent consultation announced by the 
PRA and FCA to review the UK remuneration rules to improve the 
overall competitiveness of UK capital markets. The proposals cover a 
wide range of areas, including the application of deferral and retention 
periods, which are directly applicable to our policy design.
Aligned to the key principles used by the Committee to set the policy, 
the Committee feel it is important that it retains discretion to amend 
the structure and terms of awards in the event of regulatory change 
to ensure the policy continues to meet the expectations of our 
regulators and it remains competitive versus peers.
Where discretion is exercised by the Committee, changes will always 
be made in line with the key principles used to determine the policy. 
We will engage with major shareholders ahead of making any material 
change, and clearly disclose any changes and their rationale in our 
Annual Report and Accounts.
One area discussed with shareholders as part of our engagement was 
how the Committee would exercise their discretion on the length and 
amount of deferral in the event of regulatory change.
The Committee believe that deferral mechanisms and the 
requirements to deliver a substantial portion of variable remuneration 
in shares are critical policy design elements to ensure ongoing 
alignment between reward and the interests of our shareholders.
We have therefore included in the policy a commitment to ensure 
that the weighted average time horizon of the deferral period for LTI 
awards is at least five years, in line with UK Corporate Governance 
requirements.
In addition to the specific areas of discretion expressly set out in the 
policy table, the incentive plans include a number of operational areas 
of discretion available to the Committee, including:
–
the right to grant awards in the form of conditional share awards or 
options (including nil-cost options);
–
the right to amend a performance condition in accordance with its 
terms, or if anything happens that causes the Committee to 
consider it appropriate to do so;
–
the right to settle the award in cash, based on the relevant share 
price, or shares as appropriate; and
–
the right to adjust the award on a variation of share capital or other 
corporate event that affects the current or future value of the 
award, or alternatively, the right to vest the award early in such 
circumstances.
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration 
payments and payments for loss of office, notwithstanding that they 
are not in line with the policy set out above, where the terms of the 
payment were agreed:
–
before the policy above or any previous policy came into effect;
–
at a time where a previous policy, approved by shareholders, was 
in place provided the payment is in line with the terms of that 
policy; or
–
at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the 
Group and the payment was not in consideration for the individual 
becoming a Director of the Group.
For these purposes, payments include the Committee satisfying 
awards of variable remuneration. This means making payments in line 
with the terms that were agreed at the time the award was granted.
Choice of performance measures and targets
The performance measures selected for the annual incentive and LTI 
awards will be set on an annual basis by the Committee, taking into 
account the Group’s strategic priorities and any feedback received 
from our shareholders. The following table sets out the performance 
measures we currently consider for inclusion in our scorecards. The 
Committee retains the discretion to choose other measures that are 
appropriate for achieving our strategic priorities and meeting any 
regulatory expectations, taking into account the views of our 
shareholders.
Our objective when setting targets is to balance stretch and 
achievability so they act as an effective incentive whilst recognising 
outperformance.
Financial targets are set on a reported basis excluding notable items. 
This means items occurring outside the normal course of business 
and which are generally not expected to repeat, are excluded, and 
assessed performance is not impacted by one-offs. Performance 
targets are set taking into account a number of factors, including the 
targets set in our financial resource plan, our strategic priorities, 
shareholder expectations, the economic environment and risk 
appetite. Non-financial targets are set based on progress versus prior 
year actuals, external commitments and market benchmarks. 
Minimum targets are set considering prior year(s) performance and 
downside risks to the financial resource plan. Maximum targets 
include a stretch above plan, considering upside opportunities.
The overall range is reviewed, taking into account external 
commitments and analyst consensus, where available. As a result, 
the final target ranges are not formulaically driven or always 
symmetrically spread around the plan.
Performance measures
Measures and 
modifier/underpin
Example measures for annual incentive scorecard
Example measures for 
LTI scorecard
Rationale
Financial measures
– Profit before tax
– RoTE
– Revenue growth 
– Volume growth
– Costs
– RoTE
– Total shareholder return
– Underpin to maintain a 
minimum CET1 ratio 
Measures are selected to 
incentivise the achievement 
of our financial targets as set 
out in our strategic priorities 
and financial resource plan.
Strategic measures
– Customer satisfaction
– Employee engagement
– Succession planning and inclusion
– Carbon reduction and sustainable finance
– Reduce carbon 
emissions
– Sustainable finance
Measures are selected to 
support the delivery of our 
strategic priorities.
Risk and compliance 
measures, modifier 
and/or underpin
– Sustained delivery of global conduct outcomes 
– Effective financial crime risk management
– Effective management of material operational risks
– Risk metrics to identify when business activities are outside of tolerance 
level for a significant period of time
– Failures in risk management that have resulted in significant customer 
detriment, reputational damage and/or regulatory censure 
– CET1 level
– Modifier linked to risk 
and compliance 
performance
Measures are chosen to 
ensure a high level of 
accountability of risk and 
conduct, to promote an 
effective risk management 
environment and to embed a 
robust governance system.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
289
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Approach to recruitment remuneration – executive Directors
On the recruitment or appointment of a new executive Director, the 
Committee would adhere to the following principles:
–
Remuneration packages should be in line with the approved policy 
for executive Directors.
–
Remuneration packages must meet any applicable local regulatory 
requirements.
–
Where necessary, compensation may be provided in respect of 
forfeiture of remuneration awards from an existing employer (for 
example, buy-out awards).
Outlined in the following table are all components that would be 
considered for inclusion in the remuneration package of a new 
executive Director appointment and, for each, the approach that 
would be adopted.
In the case of an internal appointment, any existing commitments will 
be honoured and any variable element awarded in respect of the prior 
role will be allowed to be paid out according to its existing terms.
Components of remuneration package of a new executive Director
Component of remuneration
Approach taken
Fixed pay 
The base salary will reflect the individual’s role, experience and responsibility, and will be set in the context of market 
practice.
The maximum cash in lieu of pension allowance will be no more than the maximum contribution, as a percentage of salary, 
that can be made for the majority of employees in the relevant jurisdiction.
Benefits 
Benefits to be provided will be dependent on circumstances while in line with Group policy and the remuneration policy 
table, including the global mobility policy (where applicable) and local regulations.
Variable pay awards
New appointments will be eligible to be considered for variable pay awards consisting of an annual incentive and/or LTI 
award (or any other element which the Committee considers appropriate given the particular circumstances but not 
exceeding the maximum level of variable remuneration set out below).
For the year in which the individual commences providing services as an executive Director, the Committee retains the 
discretion to determine the proportion of variable pay to be deferred, the deferral and retention period, whether any 
performance and/or continued employment conditions should be applied, and the period over which such performance 
should be assessed. In exercising this discretion, the Committee will take into account the circumstances in which the 
individual is appointed (for example, if it is promotion of an internal candidate or an external appointment), expectations of 
shareholders and any regulatory requirements.
Total variable pay awarded for the year in which the individual is newly appointed as an executive Director will be limited to 
900% of base salary. This limit excludes buy-out awards and is in line with the aggregate maximum variable pay opportunity 
set out in the remuneration policy table.
Guaranteed bonuses are only permitted by exception and in very rare and limited circumstances (for example, where the 
individual loses a variable pay opportunity with the previous employer as a result of joining HSBC and such an award is 
considered essential to attract and hire the candidate). If such an award is provided, then in line with the PRA remuneration 
rules, it will be limited to the first year of service, subject to the Group deferral policy and performance requirements. 
Buy-out awards 
The Committee may make an award to buy out remuneration terms forfeited on resignation from the previous employer.
The Group buy-out policy is in line with the PRA remuneration rules, which state that both the terms and amount of any 
replacement awards will not be more generous than the award forfeited on departure from the former employer.
In considering buy-out levels and conditions, the Committee will take into account the type of award, performance measures 
and likelihood of performance conditions being met in setting the quantum of the buy-out. Buy-out awards will match the 
terms of forfeited awards with the previous employer as closely as possible, subject to proof of forfeiture and other relevant 
documentation. Where the vesting time is fewer than 90 days, cash or deferred cash may be awarded for administrative 
purposes.
Where appropriate, the Committee retains the discretion to utilise the provisions provided in the UK Financial Conduct 
Authority's Listing Rules for the purpose of making buy-out awards.
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
290
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Policy on payments for loss of office – executive Directors
The following table sets out the basis on which payments for loss of office may be made. Other than as set out in the table, there are no further 
obligations that could give rise to remuneration payments or payments for loss of office:
Payments for loss of office
Component of remuneration
Approach taken
Fixed pay and benefits
Executive Directors may be entitled to payments in lieu of:
– notice, which may consist of base salary, cash in lieu of pension allowance, and other contractual benefits, or an amount in 
lieu of; and/or
– accrued but untaken holiday entitlement.
Payments may be made in instalments or a lump sum, and may be subject to mitigation, and subject to applicable tax and 
social security deductions.
Annual incentive and LTI
In exceptional circumstances, as determined by the Committee, an executive Director may be eligible for the grant of annual 
incentives and/or LTIs under the HSBC Share Plan, taking into account the time worked in the performance year and based 
on the individual’s contribution.
Unvested awards
All unvested awards will be forfeited when an executive Director ceases employment voluntarily and is not deemed a good 
leaver. An executive Director may be considered a good leaver, under the HSBC Share Plan, if their employment ceases in 
specified circumstances, which include:
– ill health, injury or disability, as established to the satisfaction of the Committee;
– retirement with the agreement and approval of the Committee;
– the employee’s employer ceasing to be a member of the Group;
– redundancy with the agreement and approval of the Committee; or
– any other reason at the discretion of the Committee.
If an executive Director is considered a good leaver, unvested awards will normally continue to vest in line with the applicable 
vesting dates, subject to performance conditions, the HSBC share plan rules, and malus and clawback provisions. Unless the 
Committee determined otherwise, awards made subject to forward-looking performance conditions, including LTI awards, 
will normally be subject to pro-rating for time in employment during the performance period.
In the event of death, unvested awards will vest and be released to the executive Director’s estate as soon as practicable.
In respect of outstanding unvested awards, the Committee may determine that good leaver status is contingent upon the 
Committee being satisfied that the executive Director has no current or future intention at the date of leaving HSBC of being 
employed by any competitor financial services firm. The Committee determines the list of competitor firms from time to 
time, and the length of time for which this restriction applies. If the Committee becomes aware of any evidence to the 
contrary before vesting, the award will lapse.
Post-departure benefits
Executive Directors can be provided certain benefits for up to a maximum of seven years from date of departure for those 
who depart under good leaver provisions under the HSBC Share Plan, in accordance with the terms of the policy. Benefits 
may include, but are not limited to, medical coverage, tax return preparation assistance and legal expenses.
Other
Where an executive Director has been relocated as part of their employment, the Committee retains the discretion to pay the 
repatriation costs. This may include, but is not restricted to, airfare, accommodation, shipment, storage, utilities, and any tax 
and social security that may be due in respect of such benefits.
Except in the case of gross misconduct or resignation, an executive Director may also receive retirement gifts.
Legal claims
The Committee retains the discretion to make payments (including professional and outplacement fees) in connection with 
an executive Director’s cessation of office or employment. This may include payments that are made in good faith in 
discharge of an existing legal obligation (or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation) or by way of settlement of 
any claim arising in connection with the cessation of that executive Director’s office or employment.
Change of control
In the event of a change of control, outstanding awards will be treated in line with the provisions set out in the respective 
plan rules.
Other directorships
Executive Directors may accept appointments as non-executive 
Directors of companies that are not part of HSBC if so authorised by 
either the Board or the Nomination & Corporate Governance 
Committee. 
When considering a request to accept a non-executive Director 
appointment, the Board or the Nomination & Corporate Governance 
Committee will take into account, among other things, the expected 
time commitment associated with the proposed appointment. 
The time commitment for external appointments is also routinely 
reviewed to ensure that it will not compromise the executive 
Director’s commitment to HSBC. 
Service contracts
The service contracts of executive Directors do not have a fixed term. 
The notice periods of executive Directors are set at the discretion of 
the Committee, taking into account market practice and governance 
considerations.
Service agreements for each executive Director are available for 
inspection at HSBC Holdings’ registered office. Consistent with the 
best interests of the Group, the Committee will seek to minimise 
termination payments. Executive Directors may be eligible for a 
payment in relation to statutory rights.
Contract date (rolling)
Notice period
(Director and HSBC)
Georges Elhedery
01 January 2023
12 months
Pam Kaur
01 January 2025
12 months
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
291
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Proposed policy 
minimum
1
Proposed policy 
target
Proposed policy 
maximum
Proposed policy 
maximum with 50% 
share price increase
Proposed policy 
minimum
1
Proposed policy 
target
Proposed policy 
maximum
Proposed policy 
maximum with 50% 
share price increase
Remuneration scenarios
The following charts show how the total value of remuneration and its 
composition would vary under different performance scenarios for 
executive Directors under the proposed policy, which is effective 
from the date of the 2025 AGM, subject to shareholders’ approval.
The charts have been prepared using 2025 salaries and, therefore, the 
cash in lieu of pension, annual incentive and LTI opportunities have 
been computed as percentages of 2025 salaries. Benefits is 
represented by the value of regular benefits in the 2024 single figure 
of total remuneration. For Georges Elhedery, this is the annualised 
value of benefits for Sir Noel Quinn, and for Pam Kaur this is the value 
of benefits for Georges Elhedery.
The charts set out:
–
the minimum level of remuneration receivable under the policy for 
each performance year;
–
the remuneration level for achieving target level of performance 
(which assumes 50% of maximum variable pay opportunity is 
realised);
–
the maximum level of remuneration (which assumes 100% of the 
variable pay opportunity is realised); and
–
the maximum level of remuneration assuming a 50% increase in 
share price for LTI awards.
Georges Elhedery (£000)
£1,838 
£8,588 
£15,338
£19,838
Pam Kaur (£000)
£1,060 
£4,997 
£8,935
£11,560
Fixed pay (salary and cash in lieu of pension)
Benefits
Annual incentive
LTI
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
292
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
26%
29%
23%
59%
68%
53%
8%
11%
19%
90%
19%
11%
91%
26%
53%
29%
59%
8%
23%
68%
2%
1%
1%
2%
1%
1%
1
Under the proposed policy minimum, benefits account for 10% of the total remuneration receivable for Georges Elhedery, and 9% of the total remuneration 
receivable for Pam Kaur.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Remuneration policy – non-executive Directors
The Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee has considered the time commitments required for all non-executive Directors as the 
Board supports HSBC through its ambitious agenda of governance reform, growth and organisational development in an environment of 
increasing regulatory, political and organisational complexity. Further information on the time commitment non-executive Directors are expected 
to fulfil is set out on page 322.
The following table sets out the framework that will be used to determine the fees for non-executive Directors during the term of this policy.
Elements and link to 
strategy 
Operation
Maximum opportunity
Fees
To reflect the time 
commitment and 
responsibilities of a nonexecutive Director of HSBC 
Holdings. 
The policy for non-executive Directors is to pay:
– base fees; and
– further fees for additional Board duties, including but not limited to chairing a 
committee, membership of a committee, or acting as the Senior Independent 
Director and/or Deputy Chairperson.
Fees are paid in cash. The Board retains the discretion to pay in shares rather than 
cash where appropriate.
The non-executive Group Chairperson will be paid a fixed annual fee for all Board 
responsibilities based on their experience and the time commitments expected 
for the role, together with such other benefits as the Committee may in its 
absolute discretion determine.
A newly appointed non-executive Director would be paid in line with the policy on 
a time-apportioned basis in the first year as necessary. No sign-on payments are 
offered to non-executive Directors. 
The Board (excluding the non-executive Directors) has discretion to approve 
changes to the fees. The Board may also introduce any new component of fees 
for non-executive Directors, subject to the principles, parameters and other 
requirements set out in this remuneration policy. 
Certain non-executive Directors may be entitled to receive fees for their services 
as directors of subsidiary companies of HSBC Holdings. Such additional 
remuneration is determined by the Board of Directors of each relevant subsidiary 
within a framework set by the Committee. 
– The Board will normally review the amount 
of each component of fees periodically to 
assess whether, individually and in 
aggregate, they remain competitive and 
appropriate in light of changes in roles, 
responsibilities and/or time commitment of 
the non-executive Directors, and to ensure 
that individuals of the appropriate calibre are 
retained or appointed. 
– There is no prescribed maximum annual 
increase. The Committee is guided by the 
general increase for the employee 
population but on occasions may need to 
recognise other factors including, but not 
limited to, change in responsibility and/or 
variance to market levels of remuneration.
– Travel allowances are set at an appropriate 
level, taking into account the time 
requirement for non-executive Directors to 
travel to overseas meetings. 
Expenses/benefits
Any taxable or other expenses incurred in performing their role are reimbursed, as 
well as any related tax cost on such reimbursement.
Non-executive Directors may on occasion receive reimbursement for costs 
incurred in relation to the provision of professional advice. These payments, if 
made, are taxable benefits to the non-executive Directors and the tax arising is 
paid by the Group on the Directors’ behalf.
Not applicable
Shareholding guidelines
To ensure appropriate 
alignment with the interests 
of our shareholders.
Non-executive Directors, individually or with their connected persons, are 
expected to satisfy a shareholding guideline of 15,000 shares within five years 
from their appointment.
The Committee reviews compliance with the guidelines annually. The Committee 
has full discretion in determining any consequences in cases of non-compliance.
Not applicable
Service contracts
Non-executive Directors are appointed for fixed terms not exceeding 
three years, which may be renewed subject to their re-election by 
shareholders at AGMs. Non-executive Directors do not have service 
contracts, but are bound by letters of appointment issued for and on 
behalf of HSBC Holdings, which are available for inspection at HSBC 
Holdings’ registered office. 
Policy on payments for loss of office – 
non-executive Directors
There are no obligations in the non-executive Directors’ letters of 
appointment that could give rise to remuneration payments or 
payments for loss of office. 
Non-executive Directors are entitled to notice under their letter of 
appointment. Non-executive Directors’ current terms of appointment 
will expire as follows:
2025 AGM
2026 AGM
2027 AGM
José Antonio Meade 
Kuribreña
Kalpana Morparia
James Forese
Geraldine Buckingham
Steven Guggenheimer 
Rachel Duan
Eileen Murray 
Dame Carolyn 
Fairbairn
Ann Godbehere
Brendan Nelson
Swee Lian Teo
 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
293
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Policy alignment with UK Corporate Governance Code
The table below details how the Group Remuneration Committee addresses the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code with 
respect to the Directors’ remuneration policy. This covers both the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code applicable in 2024, and the revised 
2024 UK Corporate Governance Code applicable from 2025 onwards. Information related to malus and clawback can be found on page 287.
Provision
Approach
Clarity
– The Committee regularly engages and consults with major shareholders to take into account shareholder 
feedback and to ensure there is transparency on our policy and its implementation.
– Details of our remuneration practices and our remuneration policy for Directors are published and 
available to all our employees.
Remuneration arrangements should be transparent 
and promote effective engagement with 
shareholders and the workforce.
Simplicity
– Our Directors’ remuneration policy has been designed so that it is easy to understand and transparent, 
while complying with the provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code and the remuneration 
rules of the UK’s PRA and FCA, as well as meeting the expectations of our shareholders. The objective of 
each remuneration element is explained and the amount paid in respect of each element is clearly set 
out.
Remuneration structures should avoid complexity 
and their rationale and operation should be easy to 
understand.
Risk
– In line with regulatory requirements, our remuneration practices promote sound and effective risk 
management while supporting our business objectives.
– The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer attends Committee meetings and updates the Committee 
on the overall risk profile of the Group. The Committee also seeks inputs from the Group Risk Committee 
when making remuneration decisions.
– Risk and conduct considerations are taken into account in setting the variable pay pool, from which any 
executive Director variable pay is funded.
– Executive Directors' annual incentive and LTI scorecards include a mix of financial and non-financial 
measures. Financial measures are subject to a CET1 underpin to ensure CET1 remains within risk 
tolerance levels while achieving financial targets. In addition, the overall scorecard outcome is subject to 
a risk and compliance modifier.
– The deferred portion of any awards granted to executive Directors is subject to a seven-year deferral 
period during which our malus policy can be applied. All variable pay awards that have vested are subject 
to our clawback policy for a period of up to seven years from the award date (extending to 10 years 
where an investigation is ongoing).
Remuneration structures should identify and 
mitigate against reputational and other risks from 
excessive rewards, as well as behavioural risks that 
can arise from target-based incentive plans.
Predictability
–
The charts set out on page 292 show how the total value of remuneration and its composition vary 
under different performance scenarios for executive Directors.
The range of possible values of rewards to individual 
Directors and any other limits or discretions should 
be identified and explained at the time of approving 
the policy.
Proportionality
–
The annual incentive and LTI scorecards reward achievement of our financial resource plan targets, as 
well as long-term financial and shareholder value creation targets.
–
The Committee retains the discretion to adjust the annual incentive and LTI payout based on the 
outcome of the relevant scorecards, if it considers that the payout determined does not appropriately 
reflect the overall position and performance of the Group during the performance period.
The link between individual awards, the delivery of 
strategy and the long-term performance of the 
Group should be clear and outcomes should not 
reward poor performance.
Alignment with culture
–
In order for any annual incentive award to be made, each executive Director must achieve a minimum 
standard of conduct, which is assessed by reference to HSBC values.
–
Annual incentive and LTI scorecards contain non-financial measures linked to our wider social strategy. 
These include measures related to reducing the environmental impact of our operations, improving 
customer satisfaction and inclusion.
–
Our Leadership 360 provides one of several ways for senior employees to ask for feedback about how 
they lead to help inform their ongoing development. 
Incentive schemes should drive behaviours 
consistent with the Group’s purpose, values and 
strategy.
Remuneration arrangements for colleagues
Our reward principles and commitments guide our approach to 
workforce reward and support our focus on being a great place to 
work. The Committee reviews these principles and commitments to 
support HSBC’s overall ability to attract, retain, develop and energise 
the best people, and who are aligned to HSBC’s values. Full details of 
our remuneration framework for colleagues is provided on page 295. 
Our executive Directors’ remuneration policy aligns with the 
framework for colleagues as follows:
–
Externally sourced market data is used to help guide pay decisions 
for colleagues, including executive Directors.
–
The base salary increases for executive Directors take into 
consideration the base salary increases of colleagues across the 
Group, and relevant market conditions.
–
The cash in lieu of pension allowance for executive Directors will not 
exceed the maximum contribution (as a percentage of salary) that can 
be made for the majority of colleagues in the relevant jurisdiction.
–
All colleagues are eligible to be considered for an annual incentive 
award based on their overall performance assessment, which 
considers performance against goals and role expectations, and 
demonstration of our values-aligned behaviours. The variable pay 
for all colleagues, including executive Directors, is funded from a 
Group variable pay pool that is determined with reference to Group 
performance. Colleagues who receive a variable pay award above 
a certain level have a portion of their award deferred over a period 
of three to seven years, or other period as required by regulators.
–
LTI awards are considered for senior management, given their 
ability to directly influence the Group's long-term performance.
The Board gathers views from our colleagues through a number of 
engagement channels. Our management engages with colleagues, 
either on a Group-wide basis or in the context of smaller focus 
groups, to solicit feedback generally on a wide range of matters, 
including pay. Our annual survey on pay seeks the views of all 
colleagues on their performance and pay outcomes. The Committee 
reviews the outcomes of the survey and determines the key 
remuneration priorities for the forthcoming year. Whilst we have not 
explicitly sought the views of colleagues on the new policy, many of 
our colleagues are also shareholders and therefore have the 
opportunity to vote on the policy at the 2025 AGM. 
As part of our annual calendar, the Committee Chair also hosts a 
forum attended by the chairs of our principal subsidiary boards and 
remuneration committees. This allows the Committee to understand 
local market factors and feedback gathered from colleagues, within 
the regions where we operate, on pay and performance matters. This 
also helps both management and the Committee to determine the 
prioritisation of pay budgets, and allows the Committee to ensure that 
funding is directed to the areas of need in support of the Group’s 
strategic ambitions. 
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
294
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Remuneration structure for colleagues
We set out below the key features of our remuneration framework, which applies on a Group-wide basis, subject to compliance with local laws:
Fixed pay
Attract and retain colleagues 
with market competitive pay 
for the role, skills and 
experience required.
– Fixed pay may include base salary, fixed pay allowances, cash in lieu of pension and other cash 
allowances in accordance with local market practice. 
– It is based on predetermined criteria, non-discretionary, transparent and not reduced based on 
performance.
– It represents a higher proportion of total compensation for more junior colleagues.
– Fixed pay may change to reflect an individual’s position, role or grade, cost of living in the 
country, individual skills, capabilities and experience.
– Fixed pay is generally delivered in cash on a monthly basis.
– Consistent with approach for 
Group colleagues except that 
under our proposed new 
policy, executive Directors will 
not receive a fixed pay 
allowance.
Benefits
Support the physical, mental 
and financial health of a 
diverse workforce in 
accordance with local market 
practice.
– Benefits may include, but are not limited to, the provision of a pension, medical insurance, life 
insurance and health assessment.
– Provision of medical insurance, 
life insurance, car and tax 
return assistance.
Variable pay
Incentivise and reward 
performance based on 
annual financial and nonfinancial measures 
consistent with the mediumto long-term strategy, 
stakeholder interests and 
values-aligned behaviours.
– All colleagues are eligible to be considered for a discretionary variable pay award. Individual 
awards are determined against performance goals set at the start of the year. 
– Variable pay represents a higher proportion of total compensation for more senior colleagues to 
strengthen alignment between total compensation and business performance. 
– Variable pay for employees is limited to 10 times fixed pay, except where local regulations 
require otherwise. 
– Awards are generally paid in cash and shares. For MRTs, at least 50% of the awards are in 
shares and/or where required by regulations, in units linked to asset management funds.
– Annual incentive is determined 
based on the outcomes of an 
annual scorecard of financial 
and non-financial measures.
– Executive Directors and 
members of the Group 
Operating Committee are also 
eligible to be considered for a 
long-term incentive award, 
which is subject to three-year 
forward-looking performance 
measures.
Buy-out awards
Support recruitment of key 
individuals.
– Buy-out awards may be offered if an individual holds any outstanding unvested awards that are 
forfeited on resignation from the previous employer.
– The terms of the buy-out awards will not be more generous than the terms attached to the 
awards forfeited on cessation of employment with the previous employer.
– For new hires, the approach is 
consistent with the approach 
taken for employees and the 
policy approved by shareholders.
New hire indicative 
variable pay
Support recruitment of key 
individuals.
– New hire indicative variable pay is awarded in exceptional circumstances, typically involving a 
critical senior new hire, and is limited to an individual’s first year of employment only. The award 
is subject to a number of factors (such as the respective performance of the Group, business 
unit and individual), and the final value paid remains at the full discretion of HSBC. 
– For new hires, the approach is 
consistent with the approach 
taken for employees and the 
policy approved by shareholders.
Deferral
Align employee interests 
with the medium- to longterm strategy, stakeholder 
interests and values-aligned 
behaviours.
– A Group-wide deferral approach is applicable to all employees. A portion of annual incentive 
awards above a specified threshold is deferred in shares vesting annually over a three-year 
period (33% vesting on the first and second anniversaries of grant and 34% on the third).
– Awards for MRTs are paid in line with the PRA and FCA remuneration rules, and in compliance 
with local regulations. 
– This means that awards are generally subject to a minimum 40% deferral (60% for awards of 
£500,000 or more) over a minimum period of four years up to a maximum of seven years. 
– Group standard deferral generally applies to MRTs identified as ’de minimis’. Individuals based 
outside the UK and identified as MRTs under local regulations, would be subject to local 
requirements where necessary.
– All deferred awards are subject to malus provisions, subject to compliance with local laws. 
Awards granted to MRTs on or after 1 January 2015 and awards granted to non-MRTs on or 
after 1 January 2022 are subject to clawback.
– HSBC operates an anti-hedging policy for all employees, which prohibits employees from 
entering into any personal hedging strategies in respect of HSBC securities.
– For all Group MRTs and the majority of local MRTs, excluding executive Directors, a minimum 
50% of the deferred awards is in HSBC shares with the remaining portion in deferred cash. 
Local regulatory requirements would also apply where necessary.
– For some employees in our asset management business, where required by the relevant 
regulations, at least 50% of the deferred award is linked to fund units reflective of funds 
managed by those entities, with the remaining portion in deferred cash awards.
– Variable pay awards made in HSBC shares or linked to relevant fund units granted to MRTs are 
generally subject to a one-year retention period post-vesting. 
– MRTs who are subject to a five-year deferral period, except senior management or individuals in 
PRA- and FCA-designated senior management functions, have a six-month retention period 
applied to their awards.
– Where an employee is subject to more than one regulation, the requirement specific to the 
sector and/or country in which the individual is working is applied.
– All of the LTI award, or at least 
60% of the total variable 
award (including LTI), is 
deferred. The deferred awards 
will vest in five equal annual 
instalments, with the first 
vesting on or around the third 
anniversary of the grant date 
and the last instalment vesting 
on or around the seventh 
anniversary of the grant date.
– All deferred awards are in 
HSBC shares and subject to a 
post-vesting retention period 
of one year.
Severance payments
Adhere to contractual 
agreements with involuntary 
leavers.
– Where an individual’s employment is terminated involuntarily for gross misconduct then, 
subject to compliance with local laws, the Group’s policy is not to make any severance 
payment and all outstanding unvested awards are forfeited. 
– For other cases of involuntary termination of employment, the determination of any 
severance will take into consideration the performance of the individual, contractual notice 
period, applicable local laws and circumstances of the case.
– Generally, for good leavers, all outstanding unvested awards will normally continue to vest in 
line with the applicable vesting dates. Where relevant, any performance conditions attached to 
the awards, and malus and clawback provisions, will remain applicable to those awards.
– Severance amounts awarded to MRTs are not considered as variable pay for the purpose of 
application of the deferral and variable pay cap rules under the PRA and FCA remuneration rules 
where such amounts include: (i) payments of fixed remuneration that would have been payable 
during the notice and/or consultation period; (ii) statutory severance payments; (iii) payments 
determined in accordance with any approach applicable in the relevant jurisdictions; and (iv) 
payments made to settle a potential or actual dispute.
– Any payments will be in line 
with the policy on loss of 
office.
Remuneration components 
and objectives
Application for Group employees
Approach for executive 
Directors
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
295
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Annual report on Directors’ remuneration 
This section sets out how our approved Directors’ remuneration policy was implemented during 2024. 
Single total figure of remuneration
(Audited)
The following table shows the single total figure of remuneration of each executive Director for 2024, together with comparative figures. Sir 
Noel Quinn retired as Group CEO and as an executive Director of the Board on 2 September 2024 and was succeeded by Georges Elhedery. 
The figures below reflect the remuneration paid in respect of time spent as executive Director during 2024.
Single total figure of remuneration
Sir Noel Quinn
Georges Elhedery
(£000)
2024
2023
2024
2023
Base salary
914
1,336
989
780
Fixed pay allowance (’FPA’)
1,138
1,700
1,288
1,085
Cash in lieu of pension
91
134
99
78
Taxable benefits1
66
127
39
4
Non-taxable benefits
60
89
58
52
Total fixed
2,270
3,386
2,473
1,999
Annual incentive2,3
1,540
2,018
1,677
1,287
Notional returns4
56
43
8
6
Replacement award
—
—
—
—
Long-term incentive5,6
5,298
4,949
1,207
—
Total variable
6,894
7,010
2,891
1,293
Total fixed and variable
9,164
10,396
5,364
3,292
1 Taxable benefits include the provision of medical insurance, car benefit, accommodation and tax return assistance (including any associated tax due, where applicable). 
Non-taxable benefits include the provision of life assurance and other insurance cover.
2 Sir Noel Quinn was not eligible to be considered for a 2025-2027 LTI award. To satisfy regulatory requirements, 40% of the annual incentive award for Sir Noel Quinn 
is delivered immediately and 60% is deferred. Both immediate and deferred portions of the award are split evenly between cash and shares. The shares portion of the 
award is subject to a retention period of one year and both the shares and the deferred cash portions of the award are subject to clawback provisions.
3 The annual incentive award for Georges Elhedery is awarded 50% in cash and 50% in shares. The shares portion of the award vests immediately at grant and is 
subject to a retention period of one year and clawback provisions.
4 Deferred cash awards granted in prior years include a right to receive notional returns for the period between the grant and vesting date. This is determined by 
reference to a rate of return specified at the time of grant and paid annually, with the amount disclosed on a paid basis. 
5 LTI awards were made in February 2022 (in respect of 2021) at a share price of £5.380 for which the performance period ended on 31 December 2024. The value of 
the awards has been computed based on a share price of £7.184, the average share price during the three-month period to 31 December 2024. The value attributable 
to share price appreciation for Sir Noel Quinn is £1,330,238 and for Georges Elhedery is £303,006. The vesting LTI granted to Georges Elhedery was in respect of 
2021 performance in his role as Co-CEO, GBM. See the following section for details of the performance assessment, which resulted in 75.00% vesting.
6 The value of the 2021-2023 LTI for Sir Noel Quinn has been restated based on a share price of £5.899 to reflect the value of the award on 12 March 2024, when the 
first tranche of the award vested. In 2023, the value was based on the average share price during the three-month period to 31 December 2023 of £6.192.
Benefits
The values of the significant benefits in the single total figure table are set out in the following table. The accommodation benefits in Hong Kong 
and the car benefits for Georges Elhedery are not included in the table below as they were not deemed significant. 
Sir Noel Quinn
Georges Elhedery
(£000)
2024
2023
2024
2023
Group income protection (non-taxable)
57
84
49
49
Accommodation in Hong Kong (taxable)
18
67
—
—
Car and driver in UK and Hong Kong (taxable)
15
47
—
—
 
Determining executive Directors’ incentive outcomes
(Audited) 
Both executive Directors met the minimum standard of conduct and 
behaviour for an annual incentive award to be made.
The award is determined by applying the outcome of their annual 
scorecard to the maximum opportunity, set at 215% of base salary. 
Sir Noel Quinn has been assessed on full-year performance against 
the Group CEO annual scorecard with his pay outcome pro-rated for 
time in role up to and including 1 September 2024. Georges Elhedery 
has been assessed on full-year performance against both the Group 
CEO and Group CFO scorecards with his pay outcome pro-rated 
based on the time spent and salary received in each role.
The financial measures, weightings and targets were set at the start 
of the year to align with our reported financial performance, excluding 
notable items, to ensure that out-turns were not impacted by oneoffs. In setting the targets, the Committee considered the 2024 
financial plan, 2023 performance, external commitments, scenario 
testing of upside and downside risks in the plan, and analyst 
consensus where available.
Diversity representation target ranges were set based on a trajectory 
to meet our external commitments. Other strategic measures were 
set based on maintaining or improving when compared with 2023 
performance and/or market benchmarks.
In assessing performance, the Committee considered, and made no 
adjustment for, the impact of interest rates, re-confirming that 
variations in the macroeconomic environment and their impact on 
business outcomes remain for our executives to manage.
The Committee considered carefully the wider context in which 
performance was delivered in 2024 and judged that the overall 
scorecard outcome for both Sir Noel Quinn and Georges Elhedery 
was appropriate against the targets set at the start of the year for 
financial, strategic and personal measures.
Taking into account inputs from the Group Risk Committee, the 
Committee concluded that the risk and compliance modifier should not 
be applied for 2024 based on the Group’s performance against key risk 
metrics for either Sir Noel Quinn or Georges Elhedery.
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
296
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Annual incentive scorecard assessment 
(Audited)
Summary assessment 
Minimum 
(25% payout)
Maximum 
(100% payout)
Performance
Weighting 
(%)
Assessment 
(%)
Sir Noel Quinn 
Outcome (%)
Georges Elhedery 
Outcome (%)
Profit before tax ($bn)1
27.1
33.5
34.1
 
15.0 
 
100.00 
 
15.00 
 
15.00 
Target basis operating expenses ($bn)1
32.9
32.3
32.6
 
15.0 
 
60.09 
 
9.01 
 
9.01 
Group RoTE1,2
 
13.5% 
 
16.5% 
 
16.0% 
 
25.0 
 
87.50 
 
21.88 
 
21.88 
Asia RoTE1,2
 
15.1% 
 
18.1% 
 
18.2% 
 
5.0 
 
100.00 
 
5.00 
 
5.00 
Customer satisfaction
See following tables for commentary
 
15.0 
 
75.00 
 
11.25 
 
11.25 
Employee experience
 
10.0 
 
70.00 
 
7.00 
 
7.00 
Wider society
 
5.0 
 
50.00 
 
2.50 
 
2.50 
Personal measures
 
10.0 
 
6.17 
 
7.15 
Total
 
100.0 
 
77.81 
 
78.79 
Scorecard outcome (000)
£1,540
£1,677
Risk adjustment (000)
£—
£—
Annual incentive (000)
£1,540
£1,677
1 Excluding notable items.
2 The CET1 capital ratio of 14.9% exceeded the tolerance level in the risk appetite statement as required by the underpin.
Strategic measures for both executive Directors
Measures
Weighting Performance achievement
Assessment Outcome
Customer 
satisfaction
Maintain and improve 
NPS in the UK and 
Hong Kong, and in 
key growth markets
15.0%
– The Committee assessed performance against a scorecard of quantitative 
targets set at the start of the year, and using NPS data from external providers. 
– In Hong Kong we met our NPS targets, and are ranked in first place in both CMB 
and WPB. 
– In HSBC UK, WPB saw a modest improvement in rank by two positions to joint 
11th. In CMB, as measured by the Savanta MarketVue Business Banking 
Survey, our Mid-Market Enterprise (’MME’) segment has improved its rank to 
2nd position at FY24 (FY23: 3rd). Our Large Corporate sector was ranked 3rd for 
NPS in the 2024 Coalition Greenwich UK Commercial Study. 
– For other key growth markets, in WPB we improved rank in Singapore, but saw 
a decline in India and rank remained stable in Mexico and China. In CMB, 
Singapore and India rankings are in the Top 3. 
– GBM has seen an improvement globally rising from 3rd to 2nd place.
– Overall, the Committee assessed that the NPS targets were met.
 
75.00%
11.25%
Employee 
experience
Improve diversity and 
inclusion
10.0%
– Senior leadership representation for women increased by 0.5 percentage points 
year-on-year to 34.6%, exceeding the target set. 
– Senior leadership colleagues with Asian heritage increased by 1.5 percentage 
points year-on-year to 39.3%, exceeding target.
– The percentage of Black heritage colleagues in senior leadership roles remained 
flat at 3.0%, which was above the minimum set, but behind target. 
– The Inclusion index in our employee Snapshot survey remained flat at 78%, 
above minimum, but behind target.
70.00%
7.00%
Wider 
society
Execution of 
sustainability 
commitments
5.0%
– Whilst the Sustainability Execution Programme (’SEP’) is on track with mitigating 
actions in place for known risks, the Committee assessment considered that the 
pace of progress could have been accelerated with greater management focus.
– The absolute financed emissions for oil & gas and thermal coal mining exceeded 
the 2024 goal on the trajectory towards our 2030 reduction target.
50.00%
2.50%
Personal measures were set at the start of the year and measured by the Committee against agreed targets and key performance indicators.
Group CEO
Weighting Assessment Performance achievement
Technology 
transformation
4.67%
75.00%
– Progress was made on our technology strategy through mobilisation of 83% value streams with clear 
accountability across technology and business leads. 
– Future State Architecture (’FSA’), which defines the technology roadmap, was agreed for four areas 
(Wholesale Credit & Lending, GPB & Wealth, Global FX and Wholesale Client Services Onboarding and Know 
Your Customer) with 97% of FSAs approved providing a better end-state view of our strategic application 
estate.
Driving data quality 
remediation
2.33%
50.00%
– The Committee’s assessment balanced strong progress against the targets set at the start of the year, while 
noting that data risk is one of the three principal risk areas to have a material impact on the Group in 2024, 
and taking into consideration regulatory feedback.
Simplification of 
processes and 
organisation
3.0%
50.00%
– In 2024, we completed the sales of our retail banking operations in France, and businesses in Canada, 
Argentina, Russia and Armenia. We announced divestments in our private banking business in Germany and 
our business in South Africa, and announced the planned sale of our France life insurance business. We 
acquired SilkRoad Property Partners Group in Singapore and Citi’s retail wealth management portfolio in 
mainland China. In October 2024, we announced a simplified organisational structure.
Total 
6.17% out of 10.00%
Personal measures for the Group CEO and the Group CFO
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
297
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Group CFO
Weighting Assessment Performance achievement
Deliver activities 
relating to 
regulatory priorities
5.0%
75.00%
– The Committee’s assessment considered improved regulatory feedback on recovery and resolution planning 
activity, and measurement and management of IRRBB risk.
– The Integrity of Regulatory Reporting programme continues to remediate against known gaps to deliver 
improvements in the quality of regulatory returns, partially meeting the targets set at the start of the year.
– The regulatory excellence programme achieved efficiencies and outcomes broadly in line with the targets and 
milestones set, and the Finance on The Cloud programme successfully closed in April 2024.
Enhanced 
disclosures and 
controls
2.5%
67.86%
– Implemented enhanced disclosures covering banking NII, structural hedge and multi-jurisdictional revenue.
– Progress against external disclosure commitments for scope 3 emissions of Pillar 3 sections and coal 
exposures and delivery of other ESG regulatory deliverables including climate risk stress testing and 
regulatory reporting.
Drive liquidity and 
capital management 
across the Group
2.5%
87.50%
– Strong capital and liquidity positions with no breaches in risk appetite, meeting the targets set.
Total
7.63% out of 10.00%
Personal measures for the Group CEO and the Group CFO (continued)
Long-term incentive (’LTI’) awards
LTI awards over 2022 to 2024 performance period 
(Audited)
Sir Noel Quinn, Georges Elhedery and Ewen Stevenson were each 
granted a 2022–2024 LTI award in February 2022. In line with the 
terms of his departure, Ewen Stevenson is a good leaver and his 
award has been pro-rated for time in employment.
The scorecard delivered an outcome of 75.00%, reflecting strong 
shareholder returns across the performance period. 
Based on the performance outcome, 737,504 shares will vest for Sir 
Noel Quinn, 167,991 shares will vest for Georges Elhedery and 
191,224 shares will vest for Ewen Stevenson. The awards will vest in 
five equal annual instalments commencing in March 2025.
The Committee determined that there were no windfall gains to 
consider for this award given the share price at grant (£5.38) was 
above the share price at the previous LTI grant (£4.26).
The 2022–2024 LTI award is subject to a risk and compliance 
modifier. The Committee received input from the GRC who assessed 
that the performance targets were delivered with appropriate risk 
management. On this basis, the Committee considered that no 
adjustment for risk should be made. 
Measures (weighting)1
Minimum 
(25% payout)
Target 
(50% payout)
Maximum 
(100% payout)
Actual Assessment
Outcome
RoTE with CET1 capital ratio underpin2 (25%)
8.0%
9.5%
11.0%
14.6%
100.0%
25.00%
Capital reallocation to Asia with CET1 capital ratio 
underpin3 (25%)
46.0%
48.0%
50.0%
43.7%
0.0%
0.00%
Transition to net 
zero4 (25%)
Carbon reduction (own 
emissions)
52.0%
56.0%
60.0%
66.1%
100.0%
12.50%
Sustainable finance and 
investment
$285bn
$340bn
$370bn
$394bn
100.0%
12.50%
Relative TSR5 (25%)
At median of the 
peer group
Straight-line vesting 
between minimum 
and maximum
At upper quartile of 
the peer group
Above upper 
quartile
100.0%
25.00%
Total
75.00%
Assessment of the 2022–2024 LTI awards
1 Awards vest on a straight-line basis for performance between the minimum, target and maximum levels of performance set out in this table.
2 Assessed based on RoTE in the 2024 financial year. The CET1 capital ratio of 14.9% exceeded the level required by the underpin.
3 Assessed based on share of Group tangible equity (on a constant currency basis and excluding associates) allocated to Asia by 31 December 2024.
4 Carbon reduction assessed on percentage reduction in total energy and travel emissions achieved by 31 December 2024 using 2019 as the baseline. Sustainable 
finance and investment assessed on cumulative financing provided over the performance period.
5 The peer group was: Bank of America, Barclays, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, DBS Group Holdings, Deutsche Bank, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., Lloyds Banking Group, 
Morgan Stanley, Standard Chartered and UBS Group. Credit Suisse Group was removed following its acquisition by UBS Group in June 2023.
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
298
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

LTI awards over 2025 to 2027 performance period 
After taking into account performance for 2024, and subject to 
shareholder approval of the new policy, the Committee intends to 
grant Georges Elhedery an LTI award of £9,000,000 and Pam Kaur an 
LTI award of £5,250,000 (both 600% of base salary). The awards will 
have a three-year performance period starting on 1 January 2025. 
Alongside reviewing the policy, the Committee has undertaken a 
comprehensive review of the performance measures used for our 
incentive arrangements to ensure alignment to the Group's priorities 
and balance delivery of financial and strategic performance. 
For the 2025-2027 LTI, we will retain Group RoTE, relative TSR and 
environment measures, reflecting our strategic commitments, and to 
assess relative performance compared with peers. 
We will increase the weighting of RoTE to 40%, reflecting that the 
delivery of a strong stable return on tangible equity is a core measure 
of the sustainable returns expected by our investors. Group RoTE will 
be assessed excluding notable items in the last year of assessment to 
mirror our outlook on RoTE which targets a mid-teens return in each 
of the three years from 2025 to 2027 excluding notable items.
The RoTE measure is subject to a CET1 capital ratio underpin. If the 
CET1 capital ratio at the end of the performance period is below the 
CET1 risk tolerance level set in the risk appetite statement, then the 
assessment for this measure will be reduced to nil.
We will increase the weighting of relative TSR to 40% as it is a key 
measure of shareholder returns, a material relative measure used by 
our peers and in line with investor expectations. No changes have 
been made to our relative TSR peer group, which continues to include 
more Asian peers to better reflect our growth and investment focus 
following a review in 2023. 
Following feedback from our shareholders on the metrics used and 
recognising the increase in LTI opportunity, we have reduced the 
overall weighting of the environment measure from 25% to 20% to 
ensure a greater proportion of the LTI is aligned to value creation 
while supporting our ESG ambitions.
The Committee completed a comprehensive review of the 
environment metrics in the LTI and discussed with major 
shareholders. At this stage, financed emission targets remain difficult 
to include given challenges in the methodology, timeliness and 
frequency of reporting. This was recognised by the investors we 
spoke to as part of our policy engagement. We therefore decided to 
retain metrics on carbon reduction in our own emissions and 
sustainable finance and investment, given we cannot currently use 
financed emissions, which is a material metric in supporting our ESG 
ambitions.
The Committee will continue to keep the environment measures and 
weighting under review for future performance cycles.
Performance targets have been set to balance stretch and 
achievability so that awards act as an effective incentive for 
management, and incentivise outperformance against our external 
strategic commitments. The proposed change in remuneration 
structure will be supported by target ranges calibrated to reflect the 
increase to the remuneration opportunity. 
It was recognised by investors in our engagement that our recent LTI 
targets have been set to deliver maximum payouts only for 
outperformance compared to consensus and our external strategic 
commitments.
For 2025-2027 awards:
–
The maximum target for RoTE reflects stretch above plan and 
performance forecasts, taking into account the macroeconomic 
environment. The minimum target for RoTE is aligned to our 
external commitment of mid-teens RoTE over the medium term. 
–
The minimum target for relative TSR is set ‘at the median of our 
peer group’, which ensures no payout for below median 
performance aligned to investor expectations. The maximum is set 
‘at the upper quartile of our peer group’.
–
Our emissions reduction targets have been set based on meeting 
our forecasts relating to emissions reduction and purchase of 
renewable energy.
–
For the sustainable finance and investment measure, we have set 
performance targets to support our ambition announced in 2020 to 
provide $750bn to $1tn of financing and investment by 2030. We 
reflected on sustainable financing forecasts, market demand, and 
regulation, as well as higher LTI opportunity in setting the stretch 
in the target range.
The LTI is subject to a risk and compliance modifier, which gives the 
Committee the discretion to ensure performance targets are delivered 
with appropriate risk management.
Consistent with our approach since 2017, the number of shares to be 
awarded will be adjusted to reflect the expected dividend yield of the 
shares over the vesting period, as awards are not entitled to dividend 
equivalents in accordance with regulatory requirements.
To the extent performance conditions are satisfied at the end of the 
three-year performance period, the awards will vest in five equal 
annual instalments commencing from around the third anniversary of 
the grant date. On vesting, shares equivalent to the net number of 
shares that have vested (after those sold to cover any income tax and 
social security payable) will be held for a retention period of up to one 
year, or such period as required by regulators.
Performance conditions for the 2025–2027 LTI awards 
Measures (weighting)1
Minimum 
(25% payout)
Target 
(50% payout)
Maximum 
(100% payout)
RoTE (excluding notable items) with CET1 capital ratio 
underpin2 (40%)
14.0%
16.0%
18.0%
Relative TSR3 (40%)
At the median of the
peer group
Straight-line vesting between 
minimum and maximum
At the upper quartile of the
peer group
Environment4 (20%)
Carbon reduction (own 
emissions)
71.0%
73.0%
78.0%
Sustainable finance and 
investment
$648.0bn
$720.0bn
$792.0bn
Subject to risk and compliance modifier
The Group Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to revise down the formulaic outcome taking into account performance against risk and compliance 
factors during the performance period.
1
Awards will vest on a straight-line basis for performance between the minimum, target and maximum levels of performance set in this table. 
2
To be assessed based on RoTE excluding notable items at the end of the performance period, subject to the CET1 capital ratio underpin.
3
The peer group for the 2024 award is: Bank of China (Hong Kong), Barclays, BNP Paribas, China Merchants Bank, Citigroup, DBS Group Holdings, J.P. Morgan 
Chase & Co., Lloyds Banking Group, OCBC Bank, Standard Chartered and UBS Group. 
4
Carbon reduction will be measured based on percentage reduction in total energy and travel emissions achieved by 31 December 2027 using 2019 as the 
baseline. The sustainable finance and investment measure will assess the cumulative amount provided and facilitated over the performance period starting from 
1 January 2020 and ending 31 December 2027.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
299
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Annual incentive measures for 2025
The 2025 annual incentive scorecard measures for our executive 
Directors have been set to incentivise the delivery of our strategy and 
its execution at pace.
Following the Committee’s comprehensive review of the policy and 
its implementation, core measures of PBT, Group RoTE and costs 
have been retained, with each assessed excluding notable items so 
that the outcome reflects performance in the control of management.
We have introduced a measure on fee income growth relative to 
balance sheet growth to incentivise growth with less reliance on 
capital. To simplify and retain financial measures at 60% of the 
scorecard (in order to meet regulatory expectations), we have 
reduced the weighting for PBT to 10% and removed the Asia RoTE 
measure to reduce overlap with Group RoTE.
The Committee felt it appropriate to have financials weighted at 60% 
to balance alignment with shareholder performance and regulatory 
expectations, and in line with UK peers.
Customer Net Promoter Score (’NPS’) has been retained to reflect our 
ambition to be a top-three bank for customer satisfaction and/or 
improve customer satisfaction rank.
We have added a measure focused on delivery of benefits from the 
organisational change.
Our people and culture measures support our strategy to have an 
inclusive culture of high performance. The Committee intends to 
assess this by considering our established inclusion index, the 
retention of high performers and other relevant indicators.
We have removed the sustainability measure introduced in 2024 to 
reduce duplication with the environment measure in the LTI, which 
better reflects the time horizon of our sustainability commitments.
Personal measures have been set to ensure meaningful weighting for 
the most critical goals for each executive Director.
The Committee will continue to retain discretion to adjust the 
formulaic outcomes of scorecards, taking into account factors such as 
Group profits, wider business performance and stakeholder 
experience, to ensure executive reward is aligned with underlying 
Group performance and the broader stakeholder experience.
The weightings and performance measures for the 2025 annual 
incentive scorecard for executive Directors are opposite.
Performance targets have been set to reflect the Group’s 2025 plan, 
external commitments, scenario testing of upside and downside risks 
in the plan while considering macroeconomic uncertainty, including 
the interest rate environment and analyst consensus where available. 
The performance targets are commercially sensitive, and it would be 
detrimental to the Group’s interests to disclose them at the start of 
the financial year. However, as with the 2025-2027 LTI scorecard, the 
Committee is mindful that targets must remain suitably stretching to 
support the increased remuneration opportunity of the new policy.
Subject to commercial sensitivity, we will disclose the targets in the 
2025 Directors’ remuneration report.
2025 annual incentive performance measures
Weighting
Financial measures (all measures subject to CET1 capital 
ratio underpin)
60.0%
Group RoTE (excluding notable items)
25.0%
Profit before tax (excluding notable items)
10.0%
Fee income growth relative to balance sheet growth
10.0%
Target basis operating expenses (excluding notable items)
15.0%
Strategic measures
30.0%
Customer satisfaction: 
Improvement in NPS scores/rank
15.0%
Deliver benefits of announced organisational changes
8.0%
People and culture:
Inclusion and retention of high performers
7.0%
Personal measures
– Group CEO: Deliver enterprise-wide foundational priorities 
including regulatory excellence, wealth acceleration and 
strategic investments, and the Group's technology strategy.
– Group CFO: Deliver activities relating to regulatory excellence 
priorities, Group Sustainability priorities, and robust liquidity 
and capital management.
10.0%
Subject to risk and compliance modifier
The Group Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to 
revise down the formulaic outcome taking into account 
performance against risk and compliance factors during the 
performance period.
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
300
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Our approach to workforce reward 
Our goal is to deliver a unique and exceptional experience to energise 
colleagues to perform at their best. This is critical to strengthening our 
ability to attract, retain and motivate the people we need in competitive 
markets where employee expectations continue to evolve. 
Our workforce reward principles and commitments guide our 
approach and support our focus on being a great place to work.
–
We will reward our colleagues responsibly through fixed pay 
security and protection through core benefits, a competitive total 
compensation opportunity, pay equity, and a more inclusive and 
sustainable benefits proposition over time.
–
We will recognise colleagues' success through our performance 
routines, including feedback and recognition, pay for performance, 
and all employee share ownership opportunities.
–
We will support our colleagues to grow through our proposition 
beyond pay, with a focus on future skills and development, support 
for well-being, and flexibility.
In 2024, we made several changes to improve colleague experience and 
unlock our performance edge:
–
We introduced new performance routines to over 200,000 
colleagues in 58 markets, so colleagues know what is expected of 
them, how they are doing and how they can improve. This is 
achieved by discussing performance more frequently through the 
year, regularly exchanging feedback and simplifying year-end 
performance assessment to focus less on ratings and more on a 
dialogue between managers and colleagues.
–
We introduced 'Target Variable Pay' to over 150,000 colleagues in 46 
markets, helping improve clarity and transparency on how we make 
pay decisions and the impact of Group, business and individual 
performance on variable pay.
–
We continued to improve our wellbeing offering by enhancing 
country Employee Assistance Programmes, increasing the number 
of mental health champions to expand the network's global reach, 
developing new financial wellbeing support and running global 
activity challenges to improve employees' physical wellbeing.
The Committee tracks various metrics to assess how we are doing and 
prioritise action plans. Our approach overall is working and has positively 
contributed to employee engagement, which has risen to a record high 
of 80% in our employee Snapshot survey. Additional metrics 
highlighting some of our areas of focus in 2024 are outlined below.
Our approach to workforce reward forms part of our broader 
employee value proposition and helps us retain and engage the 
leaders and people we need to execute our strategy. We will continue 
to track and measure progress against key metrics at a Group, global 
business and market level and use these insights to inform what 
improvements we can make. In 2025, we will continue to embed our 
performance and pay changes, protect well-being and flexibility, and 
reinvest in colleagues' skills development. 
We will reward 
you responsibly
Living wage
Fixed pay
Pay fairness
Global living wage 
employer
3.6% (2023: 4.4%) 5
percentage 
points
 
p
Following our accreditation as a global 
living wage employer in 2024, we have 
continued to work with the Fair Wage 
Network which provides an independent 
source of wage levels. HSBC has 
achieved accreditation as a global living 
wage employer in 2025 and will 
continue to review all wages against 
local living wage benchmarks.
increase to fixed pay for 2025, targeted at 
colleagues that need it most, such as 
those in high inflation markets.
increase in the number of colleagues who 
say they are paid fairly for what they do, 
compared with the 2021 year-end pay 
review.
We will recognise 
your success
Feedback
Recognition
81% (2023: 81% )
42% p
1.5m (2023: 1.4m) p
of colleagues say they receive feedback 
to help them improve performance.
average monthly increase in colleagues 
receiving feedback compared to 2023.
recognitions by employees of their peers 
for demonstrating role model behaviours 
that are linked to our values, up 7% on 
2023.
We will support 
you to grow
Mental health
Financial wellbeing
Career
#1 (2023: #1)
65% (2023: 60%) p 71% (2023: 71%)
in the Global CCLA Corporate Mental 
Health Benchmark for the third year 
running.
of colleagues say they know where to find 
financial wellbeing support, an increase of 
five percentage points compared to 2023.
Our Career Index is six percentage points 
higher than the financial services 
benchmark.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
301
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Committee governance 
The Group Chairman, Chair of the Group Risk Committee, Group 
CEO, Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer, Group Chief People 
and Governance Officer, Group Chief Legal Officer, Global Head of 
Remuneration Governance and Regulatory Accountabilities 
(Committee Secretary), and Group Head of Performance and Reward 
routinely and selectively attend Committee meetings.
No Director is present at Committee meetings when their own 
remuneration is discussed.
The Chair regularly engaged with the Committee’s key stakeholders, 
including senior management, independent advisors, investors, proxy 
advisors and regulators to listen to numerous perspectives to help 
inform the broader decision-making of the Committee. 
A copy of the Committee’s terms of reference can be found on our 
website at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-people/board-of-directors/
board-committees and further information on stakeholder 
engagement for setting the remuneration policy is set out from 
page 285.
The Committee Secretary regularly met with the Chair to ensure the 
Committee fulfilled its governance responsibilities, to consider input 
from stakeholders when finalising meeting agendas and track 
progress on actions and priorities. A summary of coverage is set out 
in the ’Matters considered during 2024’ table below. 
Matters considered during 2024
Feb1
Feb1 Jun2
Jun
Jul
Sep2
Sep
Oct2
Dec
Remuneration framework and governance
Group variable pay, workforce performance and pay matters and insights
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Directors’ remuneration policy design
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Executive Director remuneration policy implementation, scorecards and pay proposals
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Remuneration for other senior executives of the Group
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Directors’ remuneration report
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Regulatory, risk and governance
Material risk and audit events, and performance and remuneration impacts for individuals involved
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Regulatory updates, including identification of Material Risk Takers
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Governance matters
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
Matters from principal subsidiary committees
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u
u Matter considered
u Matter not considered
1 There were two meetings held during February.
2 The June, September and October meetings were ad hoc with reduced agenda.
How the Committee discharged its responsibilities
Activities outside formal meetings
In addition to its regular schedule, the Committee convened three ad 
hoc meetings to facilitate oversight of key topics under its remit in 
support of strategic priorities and initiatives during 2024. 
The Committee keeps abreast of regulatory and investor 
developments and periodically undertakes training to explore key 
topics in more detail. A comprehensive induction session was held 
with Kalpana Morparia in October 2024 to introduce her to the work 
of the Committee.
Connectivity with principal subsidiary 
remuneration committees 
The Chair hosted the biannual Remuneration Committee Chairs 
Forum in October and November 2024, bringing together Committee 
members and Chairs of the principal subsidiary remuneration 
committees. The forum provided the opportunity for members to 
discuss key priorities and challenges in relation to people, 
performance and pay matters across the Group. The focus in October 
was progress on Committee priorities for the year including the 
development of a new executive Director policy, progress on 
delivering the employee value proposition commitments and to 
receive regional feedback on key considerations for the 2024 pay 
review. In November, the forum focused on the preliminary Group 
variable pay for 2024, and allocation by business, function and region 
and the 2025 fixed pay budgets. 
The Committee received certifications from the principal subsidiary 
remuneration committees, confirming that the relevant committee 
had discharged its obligations overseeing the implementation and 
operation of HSBC’s Group Remuneration Framework and escalated 
all relevant concerns to the Committee. A regular report is presented 
to the Committee highlighting significant remuneration matters from 
the Group’s subsidiaries. 
Collaborative oversight by the GRC, GAC and 
GTOC
The Committee worked closely with, and received feedback and input 
from, the GRC and GAC on the alignment of remuneration with risk 
appetite, conduct and compliance-related matters, including risk 
adjustment considerations for Group variable pay and the application 
of the risk modifier in respect of senior employees. 
The Chair met with the Chair of the GRC, GAC and GTOC to consider 
the Group’s risk and reward alignment framework, which is designed 
to promote sound and effective risk management in meeting PRA and 
FCA remuneration rules and expectations. During the year, the Chair 
of the Committee hosted a joint session with the GRC and GTOC to 
consider improvements to the risk and reward framework, more 
details of which can be found on page 304.
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
302
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Advisers 
The Committee received input and advice from different advisers on 
specific topics during 2024. Deloitte was retained as independent 
advisor to the Committee in 2024 having been reappointed in 2022 
following a formal tender process. Deloitte also provided tax 
compliance and other advisory services to the Group in 2024. Deloitte 
is a founding member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and 
voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive 
remuneration consulting in the UK.
The Committee also received advice from Willis Towers Watson on 
market data and remuneration trends. Willis Towers Watson also 
provides actuarial support to Global Finance, benchmarking data for 
the wider workforce and services related to benefits administration 
for our Group employees. The Committee was satisfied the advice 
provided by Deloitte and Willis Towers Watson was objective and 
independent in 2024.
For 2024, total fees of £275,150 and £68,971 were incurred in relation 
to remuneration advice provided by Deloitte and Willis Towers 
Watson, respectively. This was based on pre-agreed fees and a timeand-materials basis.
Committee performance review 
In 2024, the annual review of the performance of the Board 
committees, including the Committee, was conducted externally by 
IBE. On the basis of the review, the directors concluded that the 
Committee continued to operate effectively.
Positive feedback was noted on the leadership of the Committee 
Chair and membership of the Committee, which was considered to 
have practical overlap of members with other Board committees, and 
an appropriate flow of information between Committee Chairs. 
The review highlighted the importance of both continuing to consider 
performance and pay for the wider workforce, and taking the 
opportunity to take a fresh look at the performance and pay approach 
in the context of changes to the employee value proposition.
The outcomes of the evaluation have been reported to the Board, and 
the Committee will track the progress in implementing 
recommendations during 2025.
 Further details of the annual review of the Board and Committee 
effectiveness can be found on page 257.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
303
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Additional remuneration disclosures
This section provides further information in relation to executive Director and wider workforce remuneration as required by the UK, Hong Kong, 
and Pillar 3 remuneration disclosure requirements. For the purpose of the Pillar 3 remuneration disclosures, executive Directors and nonexecutive Directors are considered to be members of the management body. Members of the Group Executive Committee other than the 
executive Directors are considered as senior management.
Link between risk, performance and reward
Our remuneration practices promote sound and effective risk management to support our business objectives and the delivery of our strategy. 
We set out below the key features of our framework, which enable us to align between risk, performance and reward, subject to compliance 
with local laws and regulations:
Variable pay
–
Group variable pay is expected to reflect Group performance, based on a range of financial and non-financial factors. We use a structured 
payout ratio range, that varies the payout ratio with profits before tax, and a countercyclical funding methodology, with both a floor and a 
ceiling, with the payout ratio generally reducing as performance increases to avoid pro-cyclicality. The floor recognises that even in challenging 
times, remaining competitive is important. The ceiling recognises that at higher levels of performance it is not always necessary to continue to 
increase variable pay, thereby limiting the risk of inappropriate behaviour to drive financial performance.
–
The main quantitative and qualitative performance and risk metrics used for assessment of performance include:
–
Group and business unit financial performance, considering contextual factors driving performance, and capital requirements;
–
current and future risks, taking into consideration performance against the risk appetite, financial resourcing plan and global conduct 
outcomes; and
–
fines, penalties and provisions for customer redress, which are automatically included in the Committee’s definition of profit for 
determining the pool.
–
In the event that the Group was unable to distribute dividends to shareholders for reasons such as capital adequacy, then the Group may 
determine that as a year of weak performance. In such a year, the Group may withhold some, or all, variable pay for employees including 
unvested share awards, using the metrics outlined above as a basis for that determination.
Individual 
performance
–
Assessment of individual performance is made with reference to clear and relevant financial and non-financial goals. Goals for senior 
management take into account appropriate measures linked to sustainability risks, such as: reduction in carbon footprint; facilitating financing 
to help clients with their transition to net zero; employee inclusion; and risk and compliance measures, subject to local legal requirements.
–
A mandatory global risk and compliance goal is included for all other employees. Subject to any legal/regulatory requirements, all employees 
receive an overall performance assessment supported by an assessment against the minimum values-aligned behaviours and conduct 
standards expected of all colleagues and performance on their goals. This ensures that performance is assessed not only on what is achieved 
but also on how it is achieved.
Control 
function staff
–
Group policy is for control functions staff to report into their respective function. Remuneration decisions for senior functional roles are made 
by the global function head.
–
The performance and reward of individuals in control functions, including risk and compliance colleagues, are assessed according to a balanced 
scorecard of goals specific to the functional role they undertake. 
–
Their remuneration is determined independent of the performance of the business areas they oversee.
–
Remuneration is carefully benchmarked with the market and internally to ensure it is set at an appropriate level.
–
The Committee is responsible for approving remuneration for the Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer and Group Head of Internal Audit.
Variable pay 
adjustments 
and conduct 
recognition
–
Variable pay awards may be adjusted upwards or downwards to reflect positive or negative conduct in adherence with the Code of Conduct. 
Downward adjustments can be made in circumstances including:
–
detrimental conduct, including conduct that brings HSBC into disrepute;
–
involvement in events resulting in significant operational losses, or events that have caused or have the potential to cause significant harm 
to HSBC; and
–
non-compliance with the values-aligned behaviours and other mandatory requirements or policies.
–
Rewarding positive conduct can be through use of our global recognition platform, At Our Best, or positive adjustments to variable pay awards.
Malus
–
Malus can be applied to unvested deferred awards (up to 100% of awards) granted in prior years in circumstances including:
–
detrimental conduct, including conduct that brings the business into disrepute;
–
past performance being materially worse than originally reported;
–
restatement, correction or amendment of any financial statements; and
–
improper or inadequate risk management.
Clawback
–
Clawback can be applied to vested or paid awards granted to MRTs on or after 1 January 2015 (and awards granted to non-MRTs on or after 
1 January 2022) for a period of seven years, extended to 10 years for employees in PRA and FCA designated senior management functions in 
the event of ongoing internal/regulatory investigation at the end of the seven-year period. Clawback may be applied in circumstances including:
–
participation in, or responsibility for, conduct that results in significant losses;
–
failing to meet appropriate standards and propriety;
–
reasonable evidence of misconduct or material error that would justify, or would have justified, summary termination of a contract of 
employment; and 
–
a material failure of risk management suffered by HSBC or a business unit in the context of Group risk-management standards, policies and 
procedures.
–
Clawback can also be applied to vested or paid awards granted to designated Executive Officers as defined by the US Securities and Exchange 
Commission (’SEC’) for a period of three years in the event of an accounting restatement due to material non-compliance with any financial 
reporting requirement under the US securities laws.
Sales 
incentives
–
We generally do not operate commission-based sales plans, unless aligned with local market practice and with appropriate safeguards to avoid 
incentivising inappropriate sales behaviours. 
Identification 
of MRTs
–
We identify individuals as MRTs based on qualitative and quantitative criteria set out in the PRA’s and FCA’s remuneration rules. Our 
identification process is underpinned by the following key principles:
–
MRTs are identified at Group, HSBC Bank (consolidated) and HSBC UK Bank level.
–
MRTs are also identified at other solo regulated entity level as required by the regulations.
–
When identifying an MRT, HSBC considers a colleague’s role within its matrix management structure. The global business and function that 
an individual works within takes precedence, followed by the geographical location in which they work.
–
We also identify additional MRTs based on our own internal criteria, which include compensation thresholds and individuals in certain roles and 
grades who otherwise would not be identified as MRTs under the remuneration rules.
Framework 
elements
Application
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
304
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Summary of shareholder return and Group CEO remuneration
The graph shows HSBC TSR performance (based on the daily spot 
Return Index in sterling) against the FTSE 100 Total Return Index for 
the 10-year period ended 31 December 2024.
The FTSE 100 Total Return Index has been chosen as a recognised 
broad equity market index of which HSBC Holdings is a member. 
The single total figure remuneration for the Group CEO over the past 
10 years, together with the outcomes of the respective 
annual incentive and LTI awards, are presented in the following table.
HSBC TSR and FTSE 100 Total Return Index
HSBC TSR
FTSE 100 Total Return Index
Dec 2014
Dec 2015
Dec 2016
Dec 2017
Dec 2018
Dec 2019
Dec 2020
Dec 2021
Dec 2022
Dec 2023
Dec 2024
0%
100%
200%
300%
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
Group CEO
Stuart 
Gulliver
Stuart 
Gulliver
Stuart 
Gulliver
Stuart 
Gulliver
John 
Flint
John 
Flint
Sir Noel 
Quinn
Sir Noel 
Quinn
Sir Noel 
Quinn
Sir Noel 
Quinn
Sir Noel 
Quinn
Sir Noel 
Quinn1,2
Georges 
Elhedery2,3
Single total figure £0004
7,340
5,675
6,086
2,387
4,582
2,922
1,977
4,154
4,895
5,562 10,396 
9,164 
1,867 
Annual incentive5 (% of 
maximum)
45%
64%
80%
76%
76%
61%
66%
32%
57%
75%
70%
78%
78%
Long-term incentive5,6,7 (% of 
maximum)
41%
–%
–%
100%
–%
–%
–%
–%
–%
–%
75%
75%
—%
1
Sir Noel Quinn’s 2024 single total figure reflects his single total figure of remuneration and includes his total fixed pay, benefits and annual incentive up to and 
including 1 September 2024 when he stepped down as Group CEO, plus his vesting 2022-2024 LTI.
2
The 2024 annual incentive figures for Sir Noel Quinn and Georges Elhedery reflect their assessment against the Group CEO scorecard for their periods as Group 
CEO.
3
Georges Elhedery’s total single figure reflects his total fixed pay, annual incentive and benefits in respect of his period as Group CEO (for the period 2 September 
2024 to 31 December 2024). Georges Elhedery’s vesting 2022-2024 LTI was granted before his appointment as Group CEO and has been excluded.
4
Sir Noel Quinn’s 2023 single total figure has been restated to reflect the value of the 2021-2023 LTI on 12 March 2024, when the first tranche of the award 
vested.
5
The 2012 annual incentive figure for Stuart Gulliver included 60% of the annual incentive disclosed in the 2012 Directors’ remuneration report, which was 
deferred for five years and subject to service conditions and satisfactory completion of the five-year deferred prosecution agreement with the US Department of 
Justice, entered into in December 2012 (’AML DPA’) as determined by the Committee. The AML DPA performance condition was met and the award vested in 
2018. The value of the award at vesting was in the 2018 single total figure of remuneration and included as long-term incentive for 2018. 
6
Long-term incentive awards are included in the single total figure of remuneration for the year in which the performance period is deemed to be substantially 
completed. For Group Performance Share Plan (’GPSP’) awards, this is the end of the financial year preceding the date of grant. The GPSP award shown in 2015 
therefore relates to the award granted in 2016. 
7
The GPSP was replaced by the LTI in 2016 and the value for GPSP is nil for 2016 as no GPSP award was made. LTI awards have a three-year performance period 
and the first LTI award was made in February 2017. The value of the LTI awards expected to vest will be included in the total single total figure of remuneration 
of the year in which the performance period ends.
Voting results from Annual General Meeting
2024 Annual General Meeting voting results
For
Against
Withheld
Remuneration report (votes cast)
97.36%
2.64%
––
9,581,517,143
259,382,421
7,973,872
Remuneration Committee discretion to set appropriate variable to fixed pay ratio(s) for 
Material Risk Takers (votes cast)
99.31%
0.69%
9,760,585,369
67,898,883
20,437,945
Remuneration policy (votes cast from 2022 Annual General Meeting)
95.73%
4.27%
––
7,666,488,029
342,320,697
7,773,468
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
305
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Total return 
to 
shareholder
2024
▲ 43%
2023
Employee 
pay
2024
▲ 1%
2023
Pay ratio
The following table shows the ratio between the total pay of the 
Group CEO and the lower quartile, median and upper quartile pay of 
our UK employees.
Total pay and benefits for the Group CEO reflects the total fixed pay, 
annual incentive and benefits for Sir Noel Quinn up to and including 
1 September 2024 and for Georges Elhedery from 2 September 2024, 
plus the value of Sir Noel Quinn’s vesting 2022-2024 long-term incentive 
(’LTI’), which was awarded in respect of his performance as Group CEO 
in 2021. The median ratio is stable year on year, reflecting that a LTI has 
vested in each of the last two years with a similar scorecard outcome.
Total pay ratio
Method
Lower 
quartile
Median
Upper 
quartile
2024
A
283:1
165:1
87:1
20231
A
285:1
165:1
86:1
2022
A
167:1
95:1
49:1
2021
A
154:1
90:1
46:1
2020
A
139:1
85:1
43:1
2019
A
169:1
105:1
52:1
Total pay and benefits amounts used to calculate the ratio
(£)
Method
Lower quartile
Median
Upper quartile
Total 
pay and 
benefits
Total 
salary
Total 
pay and 
benefits
Total 
salary
Total 
pay and 
benefits
Total 
salary
2024
A 
38,995 31,962 
66,772 53,945 127,050 
91,664 
2023
A 
36,528 27,680 
63,000 45,536 121,223 
89,506 
2022
A 
33,284 24,615 
58,257 41,000 113,778 
95,000 
2021
A 
31,727 27,666 
54,678 41,500 106,951 
84,000 
2020
A 
29,833 23,264 
48,703 36,972 
96,386 
75,000 
2019
A 
28,920 24,235 
46,593 41,905 
93,365 
72,840 
1
The 2023 pay ratios have been restated to reflect the revised 2023 single 
total figure of remuneration for Sir Noel Quinn.
The total pay and benefits for the median employee for 2024 was 
£66,772, a 6.0% increase compared with 2023.
Our UK workforce comprises a diverse mix of colleagues across different 
businesses and levels of seniority, from junior cashiers in our retail 
branches to senior executives managing our global business units. We 
aim to deliver market-competitive pay for each role, taking into 
consideration the skills and experience required for the business.
Pay structure varies across roles in order to deliver an appropriate mix of 
fixed and variable pay. Junior colleagues have a greater portion of their 
pay delivered in a fixed component, which does not vary with 
performance and allows them to predictably meet their day-to-day needs. 
Our senior management, including executive Directors, generally have a 
higher portion of their total remuneration opportunity structured as 
variable pay and linked to the performance of the Group, given their role 
and ability to influence the strategy and performance of the Group. 
Executive Directors also have a higher proportion of their variable pay 
delivered in shares, which vest over a period of seven years with a postvesting retention period of one year. During this deferral and retention 
period, the awards are linked to the share price so the value of award 
realised by them after the vesting and retention period will be aligned to 
the performance of the Group.
We are satisfied that the median pay ratio is consistent with the pay and 
progression policies for our UK workforce, taking into account the diverse
mix of our UK employees, the pay mix applicable to each role and our 
objective of delivering market competitive pay for each role subject to 
Group, business and individual performance.
Our ratios have been calculated using the option ‘A’ methodology 
prescribed under the UK Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting) 
Regulations 2018. Under this option, the ratios are calculated using fulltime equivalent pay and benefits of all employees providing services in the 
UK at 31 December 2024. We believe this approach provides accurate 
information and representation of the ratios. The ratio has been computed 
taking into account the pay and benefits of over 34,000 UK employees, 
other than the Group CEOs. We calculated our pay quartiles and benefits 
information for our UK employees using:
–
full-time equivalent annualised fixed pay, which includes base salary 
and allowances, at 31 December 2024;
–
variable pay awards for 2024;
–
return on deferred cash awards granted in prior years. The deferred 
cash portion of the annual incentive granted in prior years includes a 
right to receive notional returns for the period between the grant date 
and vesting date, which is determined by reference to a rate of return 
specified at the time of grant. A payment of notional return is made 
annually and the amount is disclosed on a paid basis in the year in 
which the payment is made; 
–
gains realised from exercising awards from taxable employee share 
plans; and
–
full-time equivalent value of taxable benefits and pension contributions. 
Full-time equivalent fixed pay and benefits for each employee have been 
calculated by using each employee’s data as at 31 December 2024. 
Where an employee works part-time, fixed pay and benefits are grossed 
up, where appropriate, to full-time equivalent. One-off benefits have not 
been included in calculating the ratios as these are not permanent in 
nature and in some cases, depending on individual circumstances, may 
not truly reflect a benefit to the employee.
The reported ratios may not be comparable to our international and listed 
peers on the FTSE 100, given differences in business mix and size, 
employment and compensation practices, methodologies for computing 
pay ratios and assumptions used by companies.
Relative importance of spend on pay
The following chart shows the change in:
–
total employee pay between 2023 and 2024; and
–
dividends and share buy-backs in respect of 2023 and 2024.
In 2024, total spend on pay was stable compared with 2023. The total 
return to shareholders increased by 43% compared with 2023. This 
included the special dividend of $0.21 per share that was paid in June 
following the completion of the sale of our banking business in Canada, 
as well as $11bn of capital return to shareholders through share buybacks, which included the up to $2bn buy-back announced at our 2023 
annual results in February 2024. In addition, the Group has announced 
the intention to initiate a further buy-back of up to $2bn. Dividends 
include an approximation of the amount payable in April 2025 in relation 
to the fourth interim dividend of $0.36 per ordinary share.
Relative importance of spend on pay
$26.9bn
$18.8bn
$18.5bn
$18.2bn
Dividends
Share buy-back
Employee Pay
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
306
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
$15.9bn
$11.0bn
$11.8bn
$7.0bn

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Comparison of Directors’ and employees’ pay
The following table compares the changes in each Director’s base 
salary, taxable benefits and annual incentive between 2020 and 2024 
with the percentage change in each of those elements of pay for UKbased employees of HSBC Group Management Services Limited, the 
employing entity of the executive Directors. 
The non-executive Director fees were increased in 2024. The year-onyear percentage change in fees noted in the table below is primarily 
driven by any pro-rated fees received by the non-executive Director 
based on time served by them on the Board and the relevant Board 
committees and any additional responsibilities taken on by the nonexecutive Director during each year. The value of benefits received by 
the non-executive Directors reflect the taxable expense 
reimbursements claimed, and the associated gross-up tax, in relation 
to attending the Board meetings in each year. Page 313 provides the 
underlying single total figure of remuneration for non-executive 
Directors used to calculate these figures. 
Annual percentage change in remuneration
Base salary/fees
Benefits
Annual incentive
Director/employees
2024
2023
2022
2021
2020
2024
2023
2022
2021
2020
2024
2023
2022
2021
2020
Executive Directors
Sir Noel Quinn1,2,3
 
(31.6) 
 
0.5 
 
3.2 
 
1.7 
 
151.7 
 
(47.8) 
 
6.7 
 
25.3 
 
(48.9) 
 
353.7 
 
(23.7) 
 
(6.7) 
 
36.1 
 
99.0 
 
20.2 
Georges Elhedery4
 
26.7 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
866.0 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
30.3 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
Non-executive Directors
Geraldine Buckingham5
 
10.7 
 
57.4 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
(40.0) 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
Rachel Duan6,7
 
4.5 
 
8.4 
 
235.8 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
(100.0) 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn7,8
 
4.7 
 
5.3 
 
231.1 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
(100.0) 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
James Forese9
 
5.5 
 
10.2 
 
20.5 
 
257.5 
 
— 
 
300.0 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
Ann Godbehere10
 
472.1 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
Steven Guggenheimer11
 
(1.9) 
 
0.8 
 
4.8 
 
86.6 
 
— 
 
300.0 
 
(90.0) 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
José Antonio Meade 
Kuribreña12
 
3.7 
 
0.8 
 
8.5 
 
10.4 
 
28.7 
 
75.0 
 
(71.4) 
 
— 
 
(100.0) 
 
100.0 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
Kalpana Morparia13
 
45.9 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
Eileen Murray14,15
 
14.1 
 
10.7 
 
(1.5) 
 
121.7 
 
— 
(100.0) 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
Brendan Nelson16
 
306.2 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
216.7 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
David Nish17
 
(66.8) 
 
0.4 
 
(1.0) 
 
0.4 
 
108.7 
 
57.9 
 
(13.6) 
 
120.0 
 
25.0 
 
(50.0) 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
Swee Lian Teo18
 
402.0 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
Sir Mark Tucker
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
184.3 
 
(54.9) 
 
242.4 
 
(36.5) 
 
(77.5) 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
Employee group19
 
3.3 
 
5.0 
 
3.1 
 
1.0 
 
2.0 
 
4.1 
 
5.7 
 
7.0 
 
1.3 
 
2.3 
 
2.4 
 
11.7 
 
3.7 
 
25.2 
 
(20.0) 
1
Sir Noel Quinn succeeded John Flint as interim Group CEO with effect from 5 August 2019 and was appointed permanently into the role on 17 March 2020. The 
annual percentage change in 2020 for Sir Noel Quinn is based on remuneration reported in his 2019 single total figure of remuneration (for the period 5 August 
2019 to 31 December 2019) and his 2020 single total figure of remuneration (for the period 1 January 2020 to 31 December 2020). Based on his annualised 2019 
compensation as an executive Director, his percentage change in salary, benefits and annual incentive was 2.1%, 85.2% and -50.9%, respectively for 2020.
2
Sir Noel Quinn voluntarily waived the cash portion of his 2020 annual incentive. The year-on-year percentage change between 2020 and 2021 would be -1% 
without this cash waiver.
3
Sir Noel Quinn stepped down as Group CEO and as an executive Director of the Board with effect from 2 September 2024. The annual percentage change in 
2024 for Sir Noel Quinn is based on remuneration reported in his 2024 single total figure of remuneration (for the period 1 January 2024 to 1 September 2024). 
Based on his annualised 2024 compensation as an executive Director, his percentage change in salary, benefits and annual incentive was 3.0%, -22.4% and 
14.1% respectively for 2024. 
4
Georges Elhedery succeeded Ewen Stevenson as Group CFO with effect from 1 January 2023, and succeeded Sir Noel Quinn as Group CEO with effect from 
2 September 2024. The annual percentage change in 2024 for Georges Elhedery is based on remuneration reported in his 2024 single total figure of 
remuneration, which reflects compensation as both Group CFO and Group CEO during 2024.
5
Geraldine Buckingham stepped down as a member of the Group Risk Committee on 1 October 2024 and was appointed as a member of the Group Audit 
Committee and Chair of the Sustainability Working Group on 1 October 2024.
6
Rachel Duan was appointed as a member of the Group Audit Committee on 1 June 2022. 
7
Rachel Duan and Dame Carolyn Fairbairn did not receive taxable benefits in 2023, resulting in a 100% reduction in benefits from the prior year.
8
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn was appointed as Chair of the Group Remuneration Committee effective 29 April 2022.
9
James Forese was appointed as non-executive Chair of HSBC North America Holdings, Inc in 2021. He was appointed as a member of the Sustainability Working 
Group on 1 October 2024.
10 Ann Godbehere was appointed as a member of the Group Audit Committee on 21 February 2024 and as a member of the Sustainability Working Group on 1 
October 2024. She was also appointed as Senior Independent Director on 3 May 2024. 
11 Steven Guggenheimer joined the Board on 1 May 2020. He stepped down as a Co-Chair of the Technology Governance Working Group on 1 March 2024 and 
was appointed as a member of the Group Technology Committee on 1 March 2024.
12 José Antonio Meade Kuribreña did not receive taxable benefits in 2021, resulting in a 100% reduction in benefits from the prior year.
13 Kalpana Morparia joined the Board on 1 March 2023. She was appointed as a member of the Group Technology Committee on 1 March 2024 and Group 
Remuneration Committee on 1 October 2024. Kalpana Morparia stepped down as a member of Group Risk Committee on 1 October 2024.
14 Eileen Murray was appointed as a member of the Group Audit Committee on 1 June 2022. She stepped down as the Co-Chair of the Technology Governance 
Working Group Committee and was appointed as the Chair of the Group Technology Committee on 1 March 2024. Eileen Murray stepped down as a member of 
the Group Audit Committee and was appointed as a member of the Group Risk Committee on 1 October 2024.
15 Eileen Murray did not receive taxable benefits in 2024, resulting in a 100% reduction in benefits from the prior year.
16 Brendan Nelson was appointed as Chair of the Group Audit Committee on 21 February 2024. He was appointed as a member of the Group Technology 
Committee on 1 March 2024 and the Sustainability Working Group on 1 October 2024.
17 David Nish retired from the Board effective 3 May 2024.
18 Swee Lian Teo was appointed as a member of the Group Technology Committee on 1 March 2024 and the Sustainability Working Group on 1 October 2024.
19 Employee group consists of individuals employed by HSBC Group Management Services Ltd, the employing entity of the executive Directors, as no individuals 
are employed directly by HSBC Holdings.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
307
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Scheme interests awarded during 2024
(Audited)
The table below sets out the scheme interests granted to executive Directors during 2024 in respect of the 2023 performance year, as 
disclosed in the 2023 Directors’ remuneration report. No non-executive Directors received scheme interests during the financial year. The below 
table includes details of immediate shares and fixed pay allowances in compliance with Chapter 17 of the Rules Governing the Listing of 
Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.
Scheme awards in 2024
(Audited)
Type of interest 
awarded
Basis on which 
award made
Date of award
Face 
value
awarded
£000
Percentage
 receivable for 
minimum
performance
Number of
shares
awarded
End of
performance 
period
Sir Noel Quinn
LTI deferred shares1
% of base salary
26 February 2024 
5,822 
 
25 
974,853
31 December 2026
Immediate shares2
% of base salary
26 February 2024 
1,009 
N/A
168,955
31 December 2023
Fixed pay allowance3
N/A
8 May 2024 
300 
N/A
42,146
N/A
15 August 2024 
300 
N/A
46,219
N/A
5 November 2024 
300 
N/A
41,846
N/A
Georges Elhedery
LTI deferred shares1
% of base salary
26 February 2024 
3,399 
 
25 
569,177
31 December 2026
Immediate shares2
% of base salary
26 February 2024 
643 
N/A
107,752
31 December 2023
Fixed pay allowance3
N/A
8 May 2024 
192 
N/A
26,899
N/A
15 August 2024 
192 
N/A
29,498
N/A
5 November 2024 
299 
N/A
41,720
N/A
1
In accordance with the remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2022 AGM, the LTI award was determined at 320% of base salary for Sir Noel 
Quinn and 320% of base salary for Georges Elhedery. The number of shares to be granted was determined by taking HSBC’s closing share price of £5.972 taken 
on 23 February 2024, and applying a discount based on HSBC’s expected dividend yield of 6.25% per annum for the vesting period (£4.385). The fair value of the 
awards was £2.028 based on IFRS 2 accounting standards. LTI awards are conditional share awards subject to a three-year forward-looking performance period 
and vest in five equal annual instalments, between the third and seventh anniversary of the award date, subject to performance achieved. Awards are subject to 
clawback for a maximum period of 10 years from the date of the award and are not eligible for dividend equivalents. 
2
Immediate share awards are granted based on the previous years’ performance as part of the annual incentive and are not subject to forward-looking 
performance conditions. On vesting, awards will be subject to a one-year retention period. The face values of the immediate share awards have been computed 
using HSBC’s closing share price of £5.972 taken on 23 February 2024. The fair value of the awards was £5.957 based on IFRS 2 accounting standards. Awards 
are subject to clawback for a maximum period of 10 years from the date of the award. 
3
Fixed pay allowance awards are granted in instalments in accordance with the remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2022 AGM, and are not 
subject to forward-looking performance conditions. Individual tax liabilities were satisfied in cash, therefore the face value awarded represents the net of tax 
value of the shares and the number of shares awarded reflects the net of tax number of shares. The fixed pay allowance awards have been computed using 
HSBC’s closing share price of £7.126 taken on 7 May 2024, £6.498 taken on 14 August 2024 and £7.177 taken on 4 November 2024. The fair values of these 
awards are based on IFRS 2 accounting standards and are £7.208, £6.558 and £7.224 respectively. These awards vest immediately and are subject to a retention 
period and released annually on pro-rata basis over five years, starting in March 2025.
Measures (weighting)1
Minimum
(25% payout)
Target
(50% payout)
Maximum
(100% payout)
RoTE with CET1 capital ratio underpin2 (37.5%)
14.0%
16.0%
17.0%
Environment and sustainability3 
(25%)
Carbon reduction
(own emissions)
66.0%
70.0%
74.0%
Sustainable finance and 
investment
$539.0bn
$641.0bn
$693.0bn
Relative TSR4 (37.5%)
At median of the
peer group
Straight-line vesting between 
minimum and maximum
At upper quartile of 
peer group
Subject to risk and compliance modifier
The Group Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to revise down the formulaic outcome taking into account performance against risk and compliance
factors during the performance period.
Performance conditions for the 2024–2026 LTI awards
(Audited)
1
Awards will vest on a straight-line basis for performance between the minimum, target and maximum levels of performance set in this table.
2
To be assessed based on RoTE at the end of the performance period, subject to the CET1 capital ratio underpin.
3
Carbon reduction will be measured based on percentage reduction in total energy and travel emissions achieved by 31 December 2026 using 2019 as the 
baseline. The sustainable finance and investment measure will assess the cumulative amount provided and facilitated over the period ending 31 December 2026. 
4
The peer group for the 2024–2026 award is: Bank of China (Hong Kong), Barclays, BNP Paribas, China Merchants Bank, Citigroup, DBS Group Holdings, 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co., Lloyds Banking Group, OCBC Bank, Standard Chartered and UBS Group. 
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
308
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Other scheme interests held during 2024
The table below details scheme interests held by executive Directors during 2024, in respect of prior performance years. Vesting of deferred 
share awards is normally subject to the Director remaining an employee on the vesting date. The awards may vest at an earlier date in some 
circumstances. Under the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong, interests in conditional share awards are categorised as the interests 
of the beneficial owner. 
Other scheme interests in 2024
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares
Type of 
interest held
Dates of 
award
Award 
price (£)1
Usually vesting
At 1 Jan 
2024
Vested in 
period
Lapsed in 
period
Cancelled in 
period
At 31 Dec 
2024
from
to
Sir Noel 
Quinn
LTI deferred 
shares
1 Mar 2021 
4.262 
1 Mar 2024
31 Mar 2028 1,118,554 
167,7822 
279,639 
— 
671,133 
28 Feb 2022 
5.380 
1 Mar 2025
31 Mar 2029 
983,339 
— 
— 
— 
983,339 
27 Feb 2023 
6.357 
1 Mar 2026
31 Mar 2030 
861,422 
— 
— 
— 
861,422 
Deferred 
shares
27 Feb 20173 
6.503 
1 Mar 2020
31 Mar 2024 
19,886 
20,6984 
— 
— 
— 
26 Feb 20185 
7.234 
1 Mar 2021
31 Mar 2025 
43,011 
21,504 
— 
— 
21,507 
25 Feb 20196 
6.235 
1 Mar 2022
31 Mar 2026 
84,351 
28,117 
— 
— 
56,234 
24 Feb 20207 
5.622 
1 Mar 2023
31 Mar 2027 
161,362 
40,340 
— 
— 
121,022 
Georges 
Elhedery 
LTI deferred 
shares
28 Feb 2022 
5.380 
1 Mar 2025
31 Mar 2029 
223,989 
— 
— 
— 
223,989 
27 Feb 2023 
6.357 
1 Mar 2026
31 Mar 2030 
251,474 
— 
— 
— 
251,474 
Deferred 
shares
25 Feb 20198 
6.235 
1 Mar 2020
31 Mar 2024 
17,193 
17,193 
— 
— 
— 
24 Feb 20207 
5.622 
1 Mar 2023
31 Mar 2027 
118,129 
29,532 
— 
— 
88,597 
1 Mar 20219 
4.262 
1 Mar 2024
31 Mar 2028 
305,523 
61,104 
— 
— 
244,419 
28 Feb 202210 
5.380 
1 Mar 2025
31 Mar 2029 
273,163 
— 
— 
— 
273,163 
1
The award price is the closing price on the day before the grant date. In all cases the purchase price is nil.
2
The performance conditions were assessed and confirmed at 75%. The remaining 25% of the award was forfeited. Shares equivalent in number to those that 
vest under the award (net of tax liabilities) must be retained for one year from the vesting date. The award vests in five equal tranches commencing in 2024. The 
first tranche vested on 12 March 2024 at a market value of £5.8992. The closing price of the shares immediately before the date on which the awards were 
vested was £5.758.
3
The award vested in five equal annual tranches. The final tranche vested on 11 March 2024 at a market value of £5.7534. Shares equivalent in number to those 
that vest under the award (net of tax liabilities) must be retained for six months from the vesting date. The closing price of the shares immediately before the 
date on which the awards were vested was £5.799.
4
The quantity vested included 812 dividend equivalents allocated in respect of the Q4 2023 dividend.
5
Shares equivalent in number to those that vest under the award (net of tax liabilities) must be retained for one year from the vesting date. The award will vest in 
five equal annual tranches. The fourth tranche vested on 12 March 2024 at a market value of £5.8992. The closing price of the shares immediately before the 
date on which the awards were vested was £5.758.
6
Shares equivalent in number to those that vest under the award (net of tax liabilities) must be retained for one year from the vesting date. The award will vest in 
five equal annual tranches. The third tranche vested on 11 March 2024 at a market value of £5.7534. The closing price of the shares immediately before the date 
on which the awards were vested was £5.799.
7
Shares equivalent in number to those that vest under the award (net of tax liabilities) must be retained for one year from the vesting date. The award will vest in 
five equal annual tranches. The second tranche vested on 11 March 2024 at a market value of £5.7534. The closing price of the shares immediately before the 
date on which the awards were vested was £5.799.
8
Shares equivalent in number to those that vest under the award (net of tax liabilities) must be retained for six months from the vesting date. The award vested in 
five equal annual tranches. The final tranche vested on 11 March 2024 at a market value of £5.7534. The closing price of the shares immediately before the date 
on which the awards were vested was £5.799.
9
Shares equivalent in number to those that vest under the award (net of tax liabilities) must be retained for one year from the vesting date. The award will vest in 
five equal annual tranches. The first tranche vested on 12 March 2024 at a market value of £5.8992. The closing price of the shares immediately before the date 
on which the awards were vested was £5.758.
10 The award will vest in five equal annual tranches commencing in 2025. Shares equivalent in number to those that vest under the award (net of tax liabilities) 
must be retained for one year from the vesting date.
No Directors held any short position (as defined in the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong) in the shares or debentures of HSBC 
Holdings and its associated corporations. Save as stated in the tables above, none of the Directors had an interest in any shares or debentures 
of HSBC Holdings or any associates at the beginning or at the end of the period, and none of the Directors or members of their immediate 
families were awarded or exercised any right to subscribe for any shares or debentures in any HSBC corporation during the period.
There have been no changes in the shares or debentures of the Directors from 31 December 2024 to the date of this report.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
309
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Executive Directors’ interests in shares
(Audited)
The shareholdings of executive Directors in 2024, including the 
shareholdings of their connected persons, at 31 December 2024 (or 
the date they stepped down from the Board, if earlier) are set out 
below. The following table shows the comparison of shareholdings 
with the company shareholding guidelines. There have been no 
changes in the shareholdings of the executive Directors from 
31 December 2024 to the date of this report.
Individuals have five years from their appointment date to build up the 
recommended levels of shareholding. In line with investor guidance, 
for executive Directors, unvested shares that are not subject to 
forward-looking performance conditions (on a net of tax basis) can 
count towards their shareholding requirement under the shareholderapproved policy.
The Committee reviews compliance with the shareholding 
requirement, taking into account shareholder expectations and 
guidelines. The Committee also has full discretion in determining any 
penalties for non-compliance.
With regard to post-employment shareholding arrangements, we 
believe that our remuneration structure achieves the objective of 
ensuring there is ongoing alignment of executive Directors’ interests 
with shareholder experience post-cessation of their employment due 
to the following features of the policy: 
–
Shares delivered to executive Directors as part of the fixed pay 
allowance have a five-year retention period, which continues to 
apply following a departure of an executive Director.
–
Shares delivered as part of an annual incentive award are subject 
to a one-year retention period, which continues to apply following 
a departure of an executive Director.
–
LTI awards have a seven-year vesting period with a one-year postvesting retention period, which is not accelerated on departure. 
The weighted average holding period of an LTI award within HSBC is 
therefore six years, in excess of the five-year holding period typically 
implemented by FTSE-listed companies. 
HSBC operates a policy under which individuals are not permitted to 
enter into any personal hedging strategies in relation to HSBC shares 
subject to a vesting and/or retention period.
Shares
(Audited)
Shareholding 
guidelines
(% of salary)
Shareholding at 
31 Dec 20242 or 
date stepped 
down 
(% of salary)
At 31 Dec 2024, or date stepped down from the Board if earlier
Scheme interests
Share 
interests
(number
of shares)
Share 
options3
Shares awarded subject to deferral1
without
 performance 
conditions
with
performance
conditions4
Executive Directors
Sir Noel Quinn5 (stepped down from 2 
September 2024)
400%
1,068% 
2,046,949 
— 
869,896 
2,819,614 
Georges Elhedery5 (appointed as Group 
CEO from 2 September 2024)
400%
504% 
966,017 
— 
606,179 
1,044,640 
1
The gross number of shares is disclosed. A portion will be sold at vesting to cover any income tax and social security that falls due at the time of vesting.
2
The value of the shareholding is calculated using an average of the daily closing share prices in the three months to 31 December 2024 (£7.184), and does not 
include any unvested interests.
3
At 31 December 2024, Sir Noel Quinn and Georges Elhedery did not hold any options under the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Plan (UK).
4
LTI awards granted in February 2022, 2023 and 2024 are subject to the performance conditions as set out in the preceding sections. 
5
Executive Directors are expected to meet their shareholding guidelines within five years of the date of their appointment. 
Total pension entitlements 
(Audited)
No employees who served as executive Directors during the year 
have a right to amounts under any HSBC final salary pension scheme 
for their services as executive Directors or are entitled to additional 
benefits in the event of early retirement. There is no retirement age 
set for Directors, but the normal retirement age for colleagues is 65.
Payments to past Directors
(Audited)
In line with the terms of his departure disclosed in our Annual Report 
and Accounts 2022, Ewen Stevenson was granted good leaver status. 
Ewen Stevenson is eligible to receive vesting of the 2022–2024 LTI 
award, pro-rated for time in employment subject to satisfaction of 
non-compete provisions under which he cannot undertake a role with 
a defined list of competitor financial services firms for 12 months 
after his employment ceases with HSBC. Details of the 2022–2024 
LTI outcome are outlined on page 298.
No other payments were made to, or in respect of, former Directors 
in the year in excess of the minimum threshold of £50,000 set for this 
purpose.
External appointments
During 2024, executive Directors did not receive any fees from 
external appointments.
Payments for loss of office 
(Audited)
Departure terms for Sir Noel Quinn
Sir Noel Quinn is leaving the Group on 30 April 2025. He will continue 
to receive his salary, Fixed Pay Allowance (’FPA’), cash in lieu of 
pension allowance and other benefits up to (and including) his 
retirement date in the normal way. The aggregate value of these 
payments from 2 September 2024 to 31 December 2024 was 
£1,147,055 and comprised a salary of £454,844, a FPA of £562,019, 
cash in lieu of pension allowance of £45,484 and benefits totalling 
£84,707, which includes Group Income Protection, a contribution 
towards Sir Noel Quinn's legal fees incurred in connection with his 
departure arrangements and other benefits in connection with his 
retirement. Sir Noel Quinn will also receive cash in lieu of unused 
holiday on expiry of his notice period. The fixed pay allowance will be 
awarded in immediately vested shares, be subject to a retention 
period and released on a pro-rata basis over five years. 
Sir Noel Quinn will not be eligible for an LTI award in respect of the 
2024 performance year, or any annual incentive award in respect of 
the 2025 performance year. In accordance with the contractual terms 
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
310
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

agreed and our approved Directors’ remuneration policy, Sir Noel 
Quinn was granted good leaver status in respect of his outstanding 
unvested share awards. Good leaver status is conditional upon him 
not taking up a role with a defined list of competitor financial services 
firms for a year from his departure date. As a good leaver, his 
deferred share awards will continue to vest and be released on their 
scheduled vesting dates, subject to the relevant terms (including postvesting retention periods, malus and, where applicable, clawback). 
Any vesting of his LTI awards will be pro-rated for the period up to the 
departure date and will be subject to the relevant terms (including 
post-vesting retention periods, malus and clawback) and the 
achievement of the required performance conditions. For this 
purpose, his 2022 and 2023 LTI awards have been pro-rated for time 
with the maximum number of shares, being 669,995 and 433,268 
respectively, still subject to performance.
Sir Noel Quinn will be eligible to receive certain post-departure 
benefits for a period of up to seven years after the departure date. Sir 
Noel Quinn will receive no other compensation or payment for the 
termination of his service agreement or his ceasing to be a Director of 
the Group.
Directors’ emoluments
The details of compensation paid to executive and non-executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2024 are set out below: 
Emoluments
Sir Noel Quinn
Georges Elhedery
Non-executive Directors1
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
£000
£000
£000
£000
£000
£000
Directors' base salary, allowances and benefits in kind
 
2,270 
3,386 
2,473 
1,999 
Non-executive Directors' fees and benefits in kind
 
5,583 
4,769 
Pension contributions
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Performance-related pay paid or receivable2,3
 
1,540 
6,293 
10,677 
3,783 
— 
— 
Inducements to join paid or receivable
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Compensation for loss of office
 
1,147 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Notional return on deferred cash
 
56 
43 
8 
6 
— 
— 
Total
 
5,013 
9,722 
13,157 
5,788 
5,583 
4,769 
Total ($000)
 
6,406 
12,424 
16,814 
7,397 
7,135 
6,095 
1
Fees and benefits in kind for 2024 reflects the population as per the single total figure table for non-executive Directors, which excludes individuals who have 
stepped down from the Board during 2024. 
2
Includes the value of the deferred and LTI awards at grant. 
3
The 2024 value of performance-related pay paid or receivable for Georges Elhedery includes the proposed 2025-2027 LTI award under the new executive 
Director remuneration policy, which is subject to shareholder approval at the 2025 AGM.
The aggregate amount of Directors’ emoluments (including both executive Directors and non-executive Directors) for the year ended 
31 December 2024 was $30,355,377. The aggregate value of Director retirement benefits for current Directors is nil.
As per our policy, benefits in kind may include, but are not limited to, the provision of medical insurance, income protection insurance, health 
assessment, life assurance, club membership, tax assistance, car benefit, travel assistance, provision of company owned-accommodation and 
relocation costs (including any tax due, where applicable).
The details of compensation paid to former executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2024 are set out below: 
Emoluments to former executive Directors
Douglas Flint
Stuart Gulliver
John Flint
Marc Moses
£
$
£
$
£
$
£
$
Post-employment medical insurance benefits
8,018
10,246
8,018
10,246
12,161
15,541
18,950
24,217
Tax return support
—
—
—
—
—
—
2,500
3,195
1
Amounts are converted into US dollars based on the average exchange rates for the year.
The total aggregate value of benefits provided to former executive Directors in 2024 was £49,646 ($63,444). There were payments under 
retirement benefit arrangements to four former Directors of £3,225,964. 
We note an additional retirement benefit payment made in 2023 to a former Director of £1,038,863. This means payments under retirement 
benefit arrangements for 2023 were made to four former Directors, totalling £2,420,537.
The provision at 31 December 2024 in respect of unfunded pension obligations to two former Directors amounted to £352,441. This relates to 
unfunded unapproved retirement benefits schemes. 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
311
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Emoluments of senior management and five highest paid employees
The following tables set out the emoluments paid to senior management, which in this case comprises executive Directors and members of the 
Group Executive Committee, for the year ended 31 December 2024, or for the period of appointment in 2024 as a Director or member of the 
Group Executive Committee. Details of the remuneration paid and share awards granted to the five highest paid employees, comprising 
Georges Elhedery, Pam Kaur and three other members of the Group Executive Committee for the year ended 31 December 2024, are also 
presented.
Five highest paid employees – share awards (HSBC Share Plan 2011)
Dates of award
Award
price (£)1
HSBC Holdings ordinary share awards
Usually vesting
At 1 Jan 
2024
Granted in 
period
Vested in 
period2
Lapsed
in period
Cancelled in 
period
At 31 Dec 2024
from
to
2017 to 2023
 
— 
1 Mar 2024
30 Mar 2030 
4,290,807 
— 
478,332 
— 
— 
3,812,475 
26 Feb 20243
 
5.972 
26 Feb 2024
30 Mar 2031 
— 
2,064,764 
568,482 
— 
— 
1,496,282 
18 Mar 20244
 
5.980 
18 Mar 2024
30 Mar 2028 
— 
313,085 
113,864 
— 
— 
199,221 
8 May 20245
 
7.126 
8 May 2024
30 Mar 2027 
— 
1,012,813 
332,397 
— 
— 
680,416 
15 Aug 20246
 
6.498 
15 Aug 2024
15 Aug 2024 
— 
29,498 
29,498 
— 
— 
— 
5 Nov 20247
 
7.177 
5 Nov 2024
5 Nov 2024 
— 
41,720 
41,720 
— 
— 
— 
1 Jan to 31 Dec 20248
 
— 
1 Mar 2024
30 Mar 2024 
— 
5,269 
5,269 
— 
— 
— 
4,290,807
3,467,149
1,569,562 
— 
— 
6,188,394 
1
The award price is the closing price on the day before the grant date. In all cases the purchase price is nil.
2
The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which the awards were vested was £6.2037.
3
The fair values of the awards were calculated according to the IFRS 2 accounting standard. The fair values, which vary based on the length of the vesting period, 
range between £2.028 and £5.957. These awards include LTI awards and other awards which are subject to satisfaction of performance conditions. LTI awards 
are subject to a combination of financial and non-financial metrics that are detailed in the Directors’ remuneration report in this Annual Report and Accounts 2024.
4
The fair values of the awards were calculated according to the IFRS 2 accounting standard. The fair values, which vary based on the length of the vesting period, 
range between £5.165 and £5.789.
5
The fair values of the awards were calculated according to the IFRS 2 accounting standard. The fair values, which vary based on the length of the vesting period, 
range between £6.823 and £7.208.
6
The fair values of the awards were calculated according to the IFRS 2 accounting standard. The fair value of the award was £6.558.
7
The fair values of the awards were calculated according to the IFRS 2 accounting standard. The fair value of the award was £7.224.
8
Relates to the allocation of dividend equivalent shares in relation to eligible awards.
Emoluments
£000s
Five highest paid employees
Senior management
Basic salaries, allowances and benefits in kind
 
10,688 
37,990 
Pension contributions
 
9 
656 
Performance-related pay paid or receivable1
 
33,459 
58,290 
Inducements to join paid or receivable
 
— 
— 
Compensation for loss of office2
 
— 
2,221 
Total
 
44,156 
99,157 
Total ($000)
 
56,429 
126,717 
1
Includes the value of deferred share awards at grant.
2
Excludes expected payments in 2025 in connection with loss of office for senior management in 2024. 
Emoluments by bands
Hong Kong dollars
US dollars
Number of highest paid employees
Number of senior management
$5,500,001 – $6,000,000
$704,877 – $768,956
 
— 
2 
$8,000,001 – $8,500,000
$1,025,275 – $1,089,355
 
— 
1 
$20,000,001 – $20,500,000
$2,563,187 – $2,627,267
 
— 
3 
$21,000,001 – $21,500,000
$2,691,347 – $2,755,426
 
— 
1 
$29,500,001 – $30,000,000
$3,780,701 – $3,844,781
 
— 
1 
$33,000,001 – $33,500,000
$4,229,259 – $4,293,339
 
— 
1 
$34,500,001 – $35,000,000
$4,421,498 – $4,485,578
 
— 
1 
$35,000,001 – $35,500,000
$4,485,578 – $4,549,658
 
— 
1 
$37,000,001 – $37,500,000
$4,741,897 – $4,805,976
 
— 
1 
$40,000,001 – $40,500,000
$5,126,375 – $5,190,454
 
— 
1 
$44,000,001 – $44,500,000
$5,639,012 – $5,703,092
 
— 
1 
$47,500,001 – $48,000,000
$6,087,570 – $6,151,650
 
— 
1 
$49,000,001 – $49,500,000
$6,279,809 – $6,343,889
 
— 
2 
$50,500,001 – $51,000,000
$6,472,048 – $6,536,128
 
— 
1 
$57,000,001 – $57,500,000
$7,305,084 – $7,369,164
 
1 
2 
$76,500,001 – $77,000,000
$9,804,192 – $9,868,271
 
1 
— 
$83,000,001 – $83,500,000
$10,637,228 – $10,701,307
 
1 
1 
$107,000,001 – $107,500,000
$13,713,053 – $13,777,132
 
1 
1 
$131,000,001 – $131,500,000
$16,788,877 – $16,852,957
 
1 
1 
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
312
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Non-executive Directors
(Audited)
The following table shows the total fees and benefits of non-executive Directors for 2024, together with comparative figures for 2023.
Fees and benefits
(Audited)
Fees1
Benefits2
Total
(£000)
2024
2023
2024
2023
2024
2023
Geraldine Buckingham3
 
270 
244 
3 
5 
273 
249 
Rachel Duan
 
255 
244 
3 
— 
258 
244 
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn
 
292 
279 
5 
— 
297 
279 
James Forese4
 
801 
759 
4 
1 
805 
760 
Ann Godbehere5
 
389 
68 
— 
— 
389 
68 
Steven Guggenheimer6
 
259 
264 
4 
1 
263 
265 
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña
 
253 
244 
7 
4 
260 
248 
Kalpana Morparia7
 
248 
170 
1 
— 
249 
170 
Eileen Murray8
 
331 
290 
— 
3 
331 
293 
Brendan Nelson9
 
329 
81 
38 
12 
367 
93 
David Nish10
 
159 
479 
30 
19 
189 
498 
Swee Lian Teo11
 
256 
51 
— 
— 
256 
51 
Sir Mark Tucker
 
1,500 
1,500 
145 
51 
1,645 
1,551 
Total (£000)
 
5,343 
4,673 
240 
96 
5,583 
4,769 
Total ($000)
6,828
5,972
307
123
7,135
6,095
1
Fees are in line with the Directors’ remuneration policy. There was a 5% increase in fees for Director fees, Group Risk Committee Member, Group Audit 
Committee Chair and Member, Remuneration Committee Chair and Member, Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee Member and Group Technology 
Committee Chair and Member). 
2
Benefits include taxable expenses such as accommodation, travel and subsistence relating to attendance at Board and other meetings at HSBC Holdings’ 
registered offices. Amounts disclosed have been grossed up using a tax rate of 45%, where relevant. 
3
Stepped down as a member of the Group Risk Committee and joined the Group Audit Committee as member on 1 October 2024. Appointed as Chair of the 
Sustainability Working Group on 1 October 2024. 
4
Appointed as a member of the Sustainability Working Group on 1 October 2024. Includes fee of £430,000 (2023: £443,000) in relation to his role as Chair of 
HSBC North America Holdings, Inc.
5
Appointed as a member of the Group Audit Committee on 21 February 2024 and the Sustainability Working Group on 1 October 2024. Appointed as Senior 
Independent Director on 3 May 2024. 
6
Stepped down as a member of the Technology Governance Working Group on 1 March 2024. Appointed as a member of the Group Technology Committee on 
1 March 2024. 
7
Appointed as a member of the Group Technology Committee on 1 March 2024. Stepped down as a member of Group Risk Committee on 1 October 2024 and 
joined the Group Remuneration Committee on 1 October 2024. 
8
Stepped down as the Co-Chair of the Technology Governance Working Group Committee on 1 March 2024 and as the member of the Group Audit Committee 
on 1 October 2024. Appointed as the Chair of the Group Technology Committee on 1 March 2024 and as a member of the Group Risk Committee on 1 October 
2024.
9
Appointed as Chair of the Group Audit Committee on 21 February 2024. Appointed as member of the Group Technology Committee on 1 March 2024 and 
Sustainability Working Group on 1 October 2024.
10 Retired from the Board at the conclusion of the 2024 AGM on 3 May 2024.
11 Appointed as member of the Group Technology Committee on 1 March 2024 and the Sustainability Working Group on 1 October 2024.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
313
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Non-executive Directors’ interests in shares
(Audited)
The shareholdings of persons who were non-executive Directors in 
2024, including the shareholdings of their connected persons, at 
31 December 2024, or date of cessation as a Director if earlier, are 
set out below. There have been no changes in the shareholdings of 
the non-executive Directors from 31 December 2024 to the date of 
this report.
Non-executive Directors are expected to meet the shareholding 
guidelines of 15,000 shares within five years of the date of their 
appointment. All non-executive Directors who had been appointed for 
five years or more at 31 December 2024 met the guidelines.
Shares
Shareholding 
guidelines (number 
of shares)
Share interests 
(number of shares)
Geraldine Buckingham 
15,000 
15,000 
Rachel Duan
15,000 
15,000 
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn
15,000 
15,000 
James Forese
15,000 
115,000 
Ann Godbehere
15,000 
15,000 
Steven Guggenheimer
15,000 
15,000 
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña
15,000 
15,000 
Kalpana Morparia 
15,000 
15,000 
Eileen Murray
15,000 
75,000 
Brendan Nelson 
15,000 
15,000 
David Nish (retired on 3 May 2024)
15,000 
50,000 
Swee Lian Teo
15,000 
15,200 
Sir Mark Tucker
15,000 
307,352 
2025 fees for non-executive Directors
The table below sets out the 2025 fees for non-executive Directors. The fees paid to non-executive Directors who are standing for election or 
re-election as members of Board Committees are set out in the table below (these Board Committees’ fees and Board fees are pro-rated for 
part year service where relevant).
2025 fees
Position
£
Non-executive Group Chairman1
1,500,000
Non-executive Director (base fee)
136,500
Senior Independent Director
200,000
Group Risk Committee
Chair
150,000
Member
50,000
Group Audit Committee, Group Remuneration Committee and Group Technology Committee
Chair
125,000
Member
50,000
Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee
Chair
––
Member
34,650
Sustainability Working Group 
Chair 
60,000
Member 
30,000
Designated workforce engagement non-executive Director
50,000
1
The Group Chairman does not receive a base fee or any other fee in respect of chairing of the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee.
The Board has reviewed the fees payable to non-executive Directors in the context of changes to the organisational structure. Following this 
review, the Board considered that the fees payable for chairing or being a member of a Board Committee (excluding the Nomination & 
Corporate Governance Committee) should be increased to recognise the responsibilities and additional time commitment associated with such 
a role. Overall, giving due consideration to the highly regulated and complex industry in which HSBC operates, the Board agreed to align the 
additional fee payable for chairing a Board Committee at £150,000 per annum (i.e., in line with the current fee for chairing the Group Risk 
Committee). The increase in the fee for chairing a Board Committee will be phased over two years, with an increase to £125,000 per annum for 
2025, and a further increase to £150,000 per annum with effect from 1 January 2026.
The Board also agreed increases to the additional fee for being a member of a Board Committee, and for the role of designated non-executive 
Director for workforce engagement, which were both increased to £50,000 per annum. These increases reflect the additional activity being 
undertaken during this period of organisational and cultural change.
No other changes are proposed to non-executive Director fees for 2025. 
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
314
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

MRT remuneration disclosures
The following tables set out the remuneration disclosures for 
individuals identified as MRTs for HSBC Holdings. 
Remuneration information for individuals who are only identified as 
MRTs at HSBC Bank plc, HSBC UK Bank plc or other solo-regulated 
entity levels is included, where relevant, in those entities’ disclosures.
The 2024 variable pay information included in the following tables is 
based on the market value of awards. For share awards, the market 
value is based on HSBC Holdings’ share price at the date of grant 
(unless indicated otherwise). For cash awards, it is the value of 
awards expected to be paid to the individual over the deferral period.
Remuneration awarded for the financial year (REM1)
Supervisory 
function
Management 
function
Other senior 
management
Other 
identified 
staff
Fixed 
remuneration
Number of identified staff
13.0
2.0
18.9
1,260.6
Total fixed pay ($m)
7.1
7.4
45.0
703.8
– of which: cash-based ($m)1
7.1
3.6
45.0
703.8
– of which: shares or equivalent ownership interests ($m)2
—
3.8
—
—
– of which: share-linked instruments or equivalent non-cash instruments ($m)
—
—
—
—
– of which: other instruments ($m)
—
—
—
—
– of which: other forms ($m)
—
—
—
—
Variable 
remuneration3
Number of identified staff
13.0
2.0
18.9
1,260.6
Total variable remuneration ($m)4
—
20.2
81.1
769.0
– of which: cash-based ($m)
—
2.1
36.8
387.8
– of which: deferred ($m)
—
0.6
16.3
179.7
– of which: shares or equivalent ownership interests ($m)2
—
18.1
44.3
367.6
– of which: deferred ($m)
—
16.7
31.3
209.5
– of which: share-linked instruments or equivalent non-cash instruments ($m)
—
—
—
9.3
– of which: deferred ($m)
—
—
—
5.1
– of which: other instruments ($m)
—
—
—
—
– of which: deferred ($m)
—
—
—
—
– of which: other forms ($m)
—
—
—
4.3
– of which: deferred ($m)
—
—
—
2.7
Total remuneration ($m)
7.1
27.6
126.1
1,472.8
1
Cash-based fixed remuneration is paid immediately.
2
Paid in HSBC shares. Vested shares are subject to a retention period of up to one year.
3
Variable pay awarded in respect of 2024. In accordance with shareholder approval received on 3 May 2024 (99% in favour), and where regulations permit, for 
each MRT the variable component of remuneration for any one year is limited to ten times the fixed component of total remuneration, in line with the maximum 
pay ratio approved by the Group Remuneration Committee. HSBC Holdings plc continues to provide approval for entities regulated by the European Banking 
Authority to operate a maximum variable pay ratio of 200% of the fixed component of total remuneration for each MRT, where permitted to do so.
4
27 identified staff members were exempt from the application of the remuneration structure requirements for MRTs under the PRA and FCA remuneration rules. 
Their total remuneration is $7.1m, of which $6.0m is fixed pay and $1.1m is variable remuneration.
Special payments to staff whose professional activities have a material impact on institutions’ risk profile (REM2)
Supervisory 
function
Management 
function
Other senior 
management
Other 
identified 
staff
Guaranteed variable remuneration awards1
Number of identified staff
—
—
—
—
Total amount ($m)
—
—
—
—
– of which guaranteed variable remuneration awards paid during the financial year, that are not 
taken into account in the bonus cap ($m)
—
—
—
—
Severance payments awarded in previous periods, that have been paid out during the financial year2
Number of identified staff
—
—
—
1.0
Total amount ($m)
—
—
—
3.4
Severance payments awarded during the financial year2
Number of identified staff
—
—
6.9
34.0
Total amount ($m)
—
—
7.5
42.6
– of which paid during the financial year ($m)
—
—
—
37.1
– of which deferred ($m)
—
—
—
—
– of which severance payments paid during the financial year, that are not taken into account in 
the bonus cap ($m)
—
—
7.5
42.6
– of which highest payment that has been awarded to a single person ($m)
—
—
4.3
9.3
1
No guaranteed variable remuneration was awarded in 2024. HSBC would offer a guaranteed variable remuneration award in exceptional circumstances for new 
hires, and for the first year of employment only. It would typically involve a critical new hire, and would also depend on factors such as the seniority of the 
individual, whether the new hire candidate has any competing offers and the timing of the hire during the performance year.
2
Includes payments such as payment in lieu of notice, statutory severance, outplacement service, legal fees, ex-gratia payments and settlements (excludes preexisting benefit entitlements triggered on terminations).
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
315
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Deferred remuneration at 31 December1 (REM3)
$m
Total amount 
of deferred 
remuneration 
awarded for 
previous 
performance 
periods
of which:
due to 
vest in 
the 
financial 
year
of which: 
vesting in 
subsequent 
financial 
years
Amount of 
performance 
adjustment 
made in the 
financial year 
to deferred 
remuneration 
that was due 
to vest in the 
financial year
Amount of 
performance 
adjustment 
made in the 
financial year 
to deferred 
remuneration 
that was due 
to vest in 
future 
performance 
years
Total 
amount of 
adjustment 
during the 
financial 
year due to 
ex post 
implicit 
adjustments
Total amount 
of deferred 
remuneration 
awarded 
before the 
financial year 
actually paid 
out in the 
financial year
Total amount 
of deferred 
remuneration 
awarded for 
previous 
performance 
period that 
has vested 
but is subject 
to retention 
periods
Supervisory function
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
Cash-based
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
Shares
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
Share-linked instruments
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
Other instruments
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
Other forms
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
Management function
58.9
4.1
54.8
(3.0)
—
11.5
4.2
2.7
Cash-based
6.5
1.3
5.2
—
—
—
1.3
—
Shares
52.4
2.8
49.6
(3.0)
—
11.5
2.9
2.7
Share-linked instruments
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
Other instruments
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
Other forms
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
Other senior management
195.8
17.9
177.9
(5.4)
—
29.6
18.2
7.5
Cash-based
65.7
8.2
57.5
—
—
—
8.3
—
Shares
130.1
9.7
120.4
(5.4)
—
29.6
9.9
7.5
Share-linked instruments
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
Other instruments
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
Other forms
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
Other identified staff
1,253.5
247.3
1,006.2
—
—
152.6
250.8
63.5
Cash-based
467.3
97.3
370.0
—
—
—
98.2
—
Shares
749.1
142.2
606.9
—
—
145.8
144.7
57.8
Share-linked instruments
31.9
6.4
25.5
—
—
6.3
6.5
4.4
Other instruments
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
Other forms
5.2
1.4
3.8
—
—
0.5
1.4
1.3
Total amount
1,508.2
269.3
1,238.9
(8.4)
—
193.7
273.2
73.7
1
This table provides details of balances and movements during performance year 2024. For details of variable pay awards granted for 2024, refer to the 
’Remuneration awarded for the financial year’ table. Deferred remuneration is made in cash and/or shares. Share-based awards are made in HSBC shares.
Identified staff - remuneration by band1 (REM4)
Identified staff that are high 
earners as set out in Article 
450(i) CRR
€1,000,000 – 1,500,000
 
257 
€1,500,000 – 2,000,000
 
118 
€2,000,000 – 2,500,000
 
48 
€2,500,000 – 3,000,000
 
35 
€3,000,000 – 3,500,000
 
13 
€3,500,000 – 4,000,000
 
8 
€4,000,000 – 4,500,000
 
7 
€4,500,000 – 5,000,000
 
10 
€5,000,000 – 6,000,000
 
7 
€6,000,000 – 7,000,000
 
6 
€7,000,000 – 8,000,000
 
1 
€8,000,000 – 9,000,000
 
1 
€9,000,000 – 10,000,000
 
1 
€10,000,000 – 11,000,000
 
3 
€11,000,000 – 12,000,000
 
— 
€12,000,000 – 13,000,000
 
— 
€13,000,000 – 14,000,000
 
— 
€14,000,000 – 15,000,000
 
— 
€15,000,000 – 16,000,000
 
1 
€16,000,000 – 17,000,000
 
— 
€17,000,000 – 18,000,000
 
— 
€18,000,000 – 19,000,000
 
— 
€19,000,000 – 20,000,000
 
1 
1
Table prepared in euros in accordance with Article 450 of the European Union Capital Requirements Regulation, using the exchange rates published by the 
European Commission for financial programming and budget for December of the reported year as published on its website.
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report | Directors’ remuneration report
316
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Information on remuneration of staff whose professional activities have a material impact on institutions’ risk profile (REM5)
Management body
Business areas
Total
Supervisory 
function
Management 
function
Total
Investment 
banking
Retail 
banking
Asset 
management
Corporate 
function
Independent 
internal 
control 
function
All 
other
Total number of 
identified staff
1,294.5
– of which members of 
the Board
13.0
2.0
15.0
– of which senior 
management
2.0
2.0
—
6.9
2.0
6.0
– of which other 
identified staff
532.9
289.6
29.0
165.0
183.5
60.6
Total remuneration of 
identified staff ($m)
 
7.1 
27.6 34.7 
721.4 
329.7 
38.8 
220.8 
149.0 139.2 
– of which variable 
remuneration ($m)1
 
— 
20.2 20.2 
394.6 
167.6 
20.6 
112.9 
69.6 84.8 
– of which fixed 
remuneration ($m)
 
7.1 
7.4 14.5 
326.8 
162.1 
18.2 
107.9 
79.4 54.4 
1
Variable pay awarded in respect of 2024. In accordance with shareholder approval received on 3 May 2024 (99% in favour), and where regulations permit, for 
each MRT the variable component of remuneration for any one year is limited to ten times the fixed component of total remuneration, in line with the maximum 
pay ratio approved by the Group Remuneration Committee. HSBC Holdings plc continues to provide approval for entities regulated by the European Banking 
Authority to operate a maximum variable pay ratio of 200% of the fixed component of total remuneration for each MRT, where permitted to do so.
Share plan matters considered by the Group Remuneration Committee
The Group Remuneration Committee and its delegates considered 
various matters relating to the HSBC share plans during the financial 
year. 
The HSBC International Employee Share Purchase Plan 
(‘ShareMatch’) and The HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option 
Plan (UK) (‘Sharesave’) were offered in 2024. The HSBC variable pay 
deferral approach for the 2024 performance year was approved, for 
which certain minor updates were made to comply with legal and 
regulatory requirements. The Directors Remuneration Policy was 
approved and will be available for shareholders to vote on at the 2025 
AGM. Other awards with performance conditions were approved for 
certain strategically important projects during 2024. 
Certain awards were granted to executive Directors or senior 
managers with vesting periods of less than 12 months:
–
Fixed pay allowance awards were granted to executive Directors 
in accordance with the approved Directors’ remuneration policy, 
which vest immediately and are subject to a retention period. 
These awards are not subject to clawback on the basis that they 
form part of the executive Directors’ fixed pay. The awards were 
granted under the HSBC Share Plan 2011.
–
Immediate share awards were granted to executive Directors and 
senior managers in compliance with our regulatory requirements 
to deliver a portion of non-deferred variable pay in instruments. 
These awards vest immediately, and are subject to a retention 
period and clawback provisions.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
317
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Share capital and other related 
governance disclosures
Share buy-backs
On 1 November 2023, HSBC Holdings commenced a further share 
buy-back of its ordinary shares of up to a maximum consideration of 
$3.0bn. The share buy-back continued in 2024 and was concluded on 
16 February 2024, with 64,733,089 ordinary shares repurchased for 
cancellation on UK trading venues and 79,414,800 ordinary shares 
repurchased for cancellation on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong 
Limited (’HKEx’) from 1 January 2024 to 16 February 2024.
On 23 February 2024, HSBC Holdings commenced a further share 
buy-back of its ordinary shares of up to a maximum consideration of 
$2.0bn. This share buy-back concluded on 23 April 2024 with 
127,570,463 ordinary shares repurchased for cancellation on UK 
trading venues and 127,412,800 ordinary shares repurchased for 
cancellation on HKEx.
On 8 May 2024, HSBC Holdings commenced a further share buy-back 
of its ordinary shares of up to a maximum consideration of $3.0bn. 
This share buy-back concluded on 26 July 2024 with 171,668,799 
ordinary shares repurchased for cancellation on UK trading venues 
and 171,252,800 ordinary shares repurchased for cancellation on 
HKEx.
On 2 August 2024, HSBC Holdings commenced a further share buyback of its ordinary shares of up to a maximum consideration of 
$3.0bn. This share buy-back concluded on 25 October 2024 with 
172,311,192 ordinary shares repurchased for cancellation on UK 
trading venues and 173,041,600 ordinary shares repurchased for 
cancellation on HKEx.
On 31 October 2024, HSBC Holdings commenced a further share 
buy-back of its ordinary shares of up to a maximum consideration of 
$3.0bn. As at 31 December 2024, 132,349,029 ordinary shares had 
been repurchased for cancellation on UK trading venues and 
82,502,400 ordinary shares had been repurchased for cancellation on 
HKEx.
The purpose of the share buy-backs was to reduce HSBC’s number of 
outstanding ordinary shares. 
As at 31 December 2024, the total number of ordinary shares 
repurchased during the year was 1,302,256,972, representing a 
nominal value of $651,128,486 and an aggregate consideration paid 
by HSBC of £4,477,248,660 on UK trading venues and 
HK$41,961,808,443 on HKEx. The ordinary shares repurchased 
represent 7.256% of the ordinary shares in issue as at 31 December 
2024. Of the repurchased ordinary shares, 20,433,459 were awaiting 
cancellation as at 31 December 2024.
The table that follows outlines details of the ordinary shares 
purchased and cancelled on a monthly basis during 2024.
Share buy-back - UK venues
Number of shares 
repurchased
Highest price
paid per share 
Lowest price
paid per share
Average price 
paid per share
Aggregate
price paid
£
£
£
£
Jan 2024
 
64,733,089 
6.4300
5.8190
6.1356
397,174,665
Feb 2024
 
17,761,890 
6.2050
5.9270
6.0468
107,403,375
Mar 2024
 
59,048,017 
6.2810
5.7290
6.0295
356,031,979
Apr 2024
 
50,760,556 
6.6960
6.1950
6.4603
327,930,581
May 2024
 
59,069,838 
7.2440
6.8240
6.9678
411,587,427
Jun 2024
 
76,307,014 
7.0080
6.7040
6.8620
523,621,847
Jul 2024
 
36,291,947 
6.9330
6.6350
6.7829
246,165,955
Aug 2024
 
51,180,681 
6.6810
6.1090
6.4796
331,631,735
Sep 2024
 
78,450,902 
6.8340
6.4550
6.6528
521,919,215
Oct 2024
 
46,324,540 
7.1490
6.5930
6.8097
315,457,983
Nov 2024
 
86,259,230 
7.3510
6.8880
7.1500
616,752,033
Dec 2024
 
42,444,868 
7.8500
7.3080
7.5762
321,571,865
Total
 
668,632,572 
4,477,248,660
Share buy-back - Hong Kong venues
Number of shares 
repurchased
Highest price 
paid per share
Lowest price 
paid per share
Average price 
paid per share
Aggregate 
price paid
(HK$)
(HK$)
(HK$)
(HK$)
Jan 2024
 
57,819,600 
63.8000
57.8500
61.0549
3,530,172,280
Feb 2024
 
33,790,800 
62.4500
58.8500
60.8394
2,055,810,581
Mar 2024
 
63,110,400 
61.9500
58.1000
60.1891
3,798,555,480
Apr 2024
 
52,106,800 
64.9500
61.1000
63.0989
3,287,883,380
May 2024
 
53,104,800 
70.6500
67.5000
68.7465
3,650,768,500
Jun 2024
 
65,043,200 
69.7500
67.0500
68.2592
4,439,796,237
Jul 2024
 
53,104,800 
69.2500
65.9000
67.3965
3,579,076,860
Aug 2024
 
64,395,200 
68.9000
61.1500
65.5441
4,220,726,180
Sep 2024
 
64,664,000 
70.9500
65.7500
68.4382
4,425,485,800
Oct 2024
 
47,667,200 
72.3000
67.3500
69.1996
3,298,553,120
Nov 2024
 
58,186,800 
72.5500
68.8500
71.1225
4,138,390,665
Dec 2024
 
20,630,800 
75.9500
72.3500
74.4804
1,536,589,360
Total
 
633,624,400 
41,961,808,443
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
318
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Dividends
Dividends for 2024
First, second and third interim dividends for 2024, each of $0.10 per 
ordinary share, were paid on 21 June 2024, 27 September 2024 and 
19 December 2024. A special dividend of $0.21 was paid on 21 June 
2024. For further details of the dividends approved in 2024, see Note 
8 on the financial statements.
On 19 February 2025, the Directors approved a fourth interim 
dividend for 2024 of $0.36 per ordinary share, making a total of $0.87 
for the 2024 full-year when including the $0.21 special dividend. The 
fourth interim dividend for 2024 will be payable on 25 April 2025 in 
cash in US dollars, or in sterling or Hong Kong dollars at exchange 
rates to be determined on 14 April 2025. The fourth interim dividend 
for 2024 of $1.80 per American Depositary Share, each of which 
represents five ordinary shares, will be payable by the depositary in 
US dollars. No liability was recorded in the financial statements in 
respect of the fourth interim dividend for 2024.
A quarterly dividend of £0.01 per non-cumulative preference share of 
£0.01 each was paid on 15 March, 17 June, 16 September and 
16 December 2024. 
Dividends for 2025
The Group intends to pay quarterly dividends on its ordinary shares 
during 2025. 
A quarterly dividend of £0.01 per non-cumulative preference share of 
£0.01 each is payable on 17 March, 16 June, 15 September and 
15 December 2025 for the quarter then ended at the sole and 
absolute discretion of the Board of HSBC Holdings plc. Accordingly, 
the Board of HSBC Holdings plc has approved a quarterly dividend to 
be payable on the non-cumulative preference share on 17 March 2025 
to holders of record on 28 February 2025.
Distributable Reserves
As at 31 December 2024, the distributable reserves of HSBC 
Holdings were $28.3bn, inclusive of $24.8bn in profits and other 
reserves movements generated in 2024. As at the date of this report, 
HSBC Holdings intends to increase its distributable reserves subject 
to shareholder and court approval. Shareholder approval will be 
sought at the 2025 AGM. The process will involve the conversion of 
the amount standing to the credit of each of the share premium 
account ($14.8bn) and capital redemption reserve ($1.8bn) as at 
31 December 2024 into retained earnings, and will have no impact on 
regulatory capital. Further information will be included in the Notice of 
the 2025 AGM which will be circulated to shareholders on 21 March 
2025. The process is expected to complete by the end of July 2025. 
Share capital
Issued share capital
The nominal value of HSBC Holdings’ issued share capital paid up at 
31 December 2024 was $8,973,475,291 divided into 17,946,950,582 
ordinary shares of $0.50 each and one non-cumulative preference 
share of £0.01, representing approximately 100.00% and 0.00% 
respectively of the nominal value of HSBC Holdings’ total issued 
share capital paid up at 31 December 2024. 
Rights, obligations and restrictions 
attaching to shares
The rights and obligations attaching to each class of ordinary and noncumulative preference shares in our share capital are set out in full in 
our Articles of Association. The Articles of Association may be 
amended by special resolution of the shareholders and can be found 
on our website at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-people/board-ofdirectors/board-responsibilities.
Ordinary shares
HSBC Holdings has one class of ordinary share, which carries no right 
to fixed income. There are no voting restrictions on the issued 
ordinary shares, all of which are fully paid. On a show of hands, each 
member present has the right to one vote at general meetings. On a 
poll, each member present or voting by proxy is entitled to one vote 
for every $0.50 nominal value of share capital held. 
There are no specific restrictions on transfers of ordinary shares, 
which are governed by the general provisions of the Articles of 
Association and prevailing legislation.
Information on the policy adopted by the Board for paying interim dividends 
on the ordinary shares may be found in the ’Shareholder information’ 
section on page 439.
Dividend waivers
The Group’s employee benefit trusts, which hold shares in HSBC 
Holdings in connection with the operation of its share plans, have 
lodged standing instructions to waive dividends on shares held by 
them that have not been allocated to employees. Shares held by 
custodians in connection with the vesting of employee share awards 
also lodged instructions to waive dividends. The total amount of 
dividends waived during 2024 was $28.85m.
Preference shares
The preference shares, which have preferential rights to income and 
capital, do not, in general, confer a right to attend and vote at general 
meetings.
There are three classes of preference shares in the share capital of 
HSBC Holdings: non-cumulative US dollar preference shares of $0.01 
each (‘dollar preference shares’); non-cumulative preference shares of 
£0.01 each (‘sterling preference shares’); and non-cumulative 
preference shares of €0.01 (‘euro preference shares’).
The sterling preference share in issue is a Series A sterling preference 
share. There are no dollar preference shares or euro preference 
shares in issue.
Information on dividends approved for 2023 and 2024 may be found in 
Note 8 on the financial statements.
Further details of the rights and obligations attaching to the HSBC Holdings’ 
issued share capital may be found in Note 32 on the financial statements.
Compliance with Hong Kong Listing 
Rule 13.25A(2)
HSBC Holdings has been granted a waiver from strict compliance 
with Rule 13.25A(2) of the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities 
on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.
Under this waiver, HSBC’s obligation to file a Next Day Return 
following the issue of new shares, pursuant to the vesting of share 
awards granted under its share plans to persons who are not 
Directors, would only be triggered where it falls within one of the 
circumstances set out under Rule 13.25A(3).
Share capital changes in 2024
In addition to the share buy-backs, the following events occurred 
during the year in relation to the ordinary share capital of HSBC 
Holdings:
Scrip dividends
There were no scrip dividends issued during the year.
Treasury shares
HSBC Holdings does not hold any ordinary shares in treasury.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
319
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

All-employee share plans1
HSBC Holdings
ordinary shares issued
Aggregate
nominal value
Market value per share
from
to
$
£
£
HSBC International Employee Share Purchase Plan
 
141,770 
70,885 
5.957 
6.707 
1
In respect of the HSBC Holdings Savings Related Share Option Plan (UK), no new shares were issued under this plan. All exercises were satisfied by market 
purchased shares. See page 326 for details of options granted, exercised and lapsed.
HSBC share plans
HSBC Holdings
ordinary shares issued
Aggregate
nominal value
Market value per share
from
to
$
£
£
Vesting of awards under the HSBC Share Plan 2011
 
10,141,660 
5,070,830 
5.799 
7.177 
 
Authorities to allot and to purchase 
shares and pre-emption rights
At the AGM in 2024, shareholders renewed the general authority for 
the Directors to allot new shares up to 12,700,701,506 ordinary 
shares, 15,000,000 non-cumulative preference shares of £0.01 each, 
15,000,000 non-cumulative preference shares of $0.01 each, 
15,000,000 non-cumulative preference shares of €0.01 each. 
Shareholders also renewed the authority for the Directors to make 
market/off-market purchases of up to 1,905,105,226 ordinary shares. 
The Directors exercised their market/off-market purchase authority 
from both the 2023 AGM and the 2024 AGM and repurchased 
1,302,256,972 ordinary shares during the year.
In addition, shareholders gave authority for the Directors to grant 
rights to subscribe for, or to convert any security into, no more than 
3,810,210,452 ordinary shares in relation to any issue by HSBC 
Holdings, or any member of the Group, of contingent convertible 
securities that automatically convert into or are exchanged for 
ordinary shares in HSBC Holdings in prescribed circumstances. For 
further details on the issue of contingent convertible securities, see 
Note 32 on the financial statements. 
Other than as disclosed in the tables above headed ‘Share capital 
changes in 2024’, the Directors did not allot any shares during 2024.
Debt securities
In 2024, HSBC Holdings issued the equivalent of $24.0bn of debt 
securities in the public capital markets in a range of currencies and 
maturities, of which $16.1bn were in the form of senior securities to 
ensure it meets the current and proposed regulatory rules, including 
those relating to the availability of adequate total loss-absorbing 
capacity. For details of capital instruments and subordinated bailinable debt, see Notes 29 and 32 on pages 416 and 423.
Treasury shares
HSBC Holdings does not hold any ordinary shares in treasury.
Notifiable interests in share capital
During 2024, HSBC Holdings did not receive any notification of major 
holdings of voting rights pursuant to the requirements of Rule 5 of the 
Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules (’Rule 5 of the DTRs’). 
No notifications had been received between 31 December 2024 and 
14 February 2025. Previous notifications received are as follows:
–
BlackRock, Inc. gave notice on 3 March 2020 that on 2 March 
2020 it had the following: an indirect interest in HSBC Holdings 
ordinary shares of 1,235,558,490; qualifying financial instruments 
with 7,294,459 voting rights that may be acquired if the 
instruments are exercised or converted; and financial instruments 
with a similar economic effect to qualifying financial instruments, 
which refer to 2,441,397 voting rights, representing 6.07%, 0.03% 
and 0.01%, respectively, of the total voting rights at 2 March 2020.
–
Ping An Asset Management Co., Ltd. gave notice on 6 December 
2017 that on 4 December 2017 it had an indirect interest in HSBC 
Holdings ordinary shares of 1,007,946,172, representing 5.04% of 
the total voting rights at that date.
At 31 December 2024, according to the register maintained by HSBC 
Holdings pursuant to section 336 of the Securities and Futures 
Ordinance of Hong Kong:
–
BlackRock, Inc. gave notice on 24 December 2024 that on 
19 December 2024 it had the following interests in HSBC Holdings 
ordinary shares: a long position of 1,615,527,141 shares and a 
short position of 4,231,678 shares, representing 8.99% and 
0.02%, respectively, of the ordinary shares in issue at that date. 
–
Ping An Asset Management Co., Ltd. gave notice on 10 May 2024 
that on 7 May 2024 it had a long position of 1,502,584,731 in 
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares, representing 7.98% of the 
ordinary shares in issue at that date.
Between 31 December 2024 and 14 February 2025, the following 
notification was received:
–
BlackRock, Inc. gave notice on 31 January 2025 that on 28 January 
2025 it had the following interests in HSBC Holdings ordinary 
shares: a long position of 1,601,449,305 shares and a short 
position of 5,961,010 shares, representing 8.97% and 0.03%, 
respectively, of the ordinary shares in issue at that date.
Sufficiency of float
In compliance with the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on 
The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, at least 25% of the total 
issued share capital has been held by the public at all times during 
2024 and up to the date of this report.
Dealings in HSBC Holdings listed 
securities
The Group has policies and procedures that, except where permitted 
by statute and regulation, prohibit specified transactions in respect of 
its securities listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited. 
Except for dealings as intermediaries or as trustees by subsidiaries of 
HSBC Holdings, and purchases by HSBC Holdings under the share 
buy-backs, neither HSBC Holdings nor any of its subsidiaries has 
purchased, sold or redeemed any of its securities listed on The Stock 
Exchange of Hong Kong Limited during the year ended 31 December 
2024. 
Directors’ interests
Pursuant to the requirements of the UK Listing Rules and according to the 
register of Directors’ interests maintained by HSBC Holdings pursuant to 
section 352 of the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong, the 
Directors of HSBC Holdings at 31 December 2024 had certain interests, 
all beneficial unless otherwise stated, in the shares or debentures of 
HSBC Holdings and its associated corporations. 
Save as stated in the following table, no further interests were held 
by Directors, and no Directors or their connected persons were 
awarded or exercised any right to subscribe for any shares or 
debentures in any HSBC corporation during the year.
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
320
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

No Directors held any short position as defined in the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong in the shares or debentures of HSBC 
Holdings and its associated corporations.
Directors’ interests – shares and debentures
At 31 Dec 2024 or date of cessation, if earlier
At 1 Jan 2024, or
date of 
appointment,
if later
Beneficial
owner
Child
under 18
or spouse
Jointly 
with 
spouse/ 
other
Trustee
Total
interests
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares
Geraldine Buckingham1 
 
15,000 
15,000 
 
15,000 
Rachel Duan1
 
15,000 
15,000 
 
15,000 
Georges Elhedery2 
 
753,467 
966,017 
 
966,017 
Dame Carolyn Fairbairn
 
15,000 
15,000 
 
15,000 
James Forese1
 
115,000 
115,000 
 
115,000 
Ann Godbehere1
 
15,000 
 
15,000 
 
15,000 
Steven Guggenheimer1
 
15,000 
 
15,000 
 
15,000 
José Antonio Meade Kuribreña1
 
15,000 
15,000 
 
15,000 
Kalpana Morparia1 
 
15,000 
15,000 
 
15,000 
Eileen Murray1
 
75,000 
75,000 
 
75,000 
Brendan Nelson 
 
— 
15,000 
 
15,000 
David Nish (retired on 3 May 2024)
 
50,000 
 
50,000 
 
50,000 
Sir Noel Quinn2 (retired on 2 September 2024)
 
1,721,465 
2,046,949 
 
2,046,949 
Swee Lian Teo
 
15,200 
15,200 
 
15,200 
Sir Mark Tucker
 
307,352 
307,352 
 
307,352 
1
Geraldine Buckingham has an interest in 3,000, Rachel Duan in 3,000, James Forese in 23,000, Ann Godbehere in 3,000, Steven Guggenheimer in 3,000, José 
Antonio Meade Kuribreña in 3,000, Kalpana Morparia in 3,000 and Eileen Murray in 15,000 listed American Depositary Shares (’ADS’), which are categorised as 
equity derivatives under Part XV of the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong. Each ADS represents five HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
2
Executive Directors’ other interests in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares arising from the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Plan (UK) and the HSBC 
Share Plan 2011 are set out in the Scheme interests in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 279. At 31 December 2024, or date of cessation if earlier, the 
aggregate interests under the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares, including interests arising through employee 
share plans and the interests above were: Sir Noel Quinn – 5,736,459; and Georges Elhedery – 2,616,836, representing approximately 0.03% and 0.015% of the 
shares in issue respectively.
There have been no changes in the shares or debentures of the current Directors from 31 December 2024 to the date of this report.
UK Listing Rule 6.6.1 and other 
disclosures 
The disclosures required by UKLR 6.6.1, and other regulations, are set 
out on the following pages:
Content
Page references
Long-term incentives
298
Dividends and Dividend waivers
319
Share buy-back
318
Emissions
42
Energy Efficiency
42, 45-46
Principal activities of HSBC
11, 30, 96-97, 405
Business review and future developments
11-40, 41, 128, 136, 430
Risk Review
37-39, 128-235
Engagement with suppliers, customers and 
others
20-21
 
Board governance
Appointment and re-election of 
Directors
A rigorous selection process is followed for the appointment of 
Directors. Appointments are made on merit and candidates are 
considered against objective criteria, and with regard to the benefits 
of a diverse Board. Appointments are made in accordance with HSBC 
Holdings’ Articles of Association. 
The Board may at any time appoint any person as a Director or 
secretary, either to fill a vacancy or as an additional officer. The Board 
may appoint any Director or secretary to hold any employment or 
executive office and may revoke or terminate any such appointment.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial three-year term 
and, subject to continued satisfactory performance based upon an 
assessment by the Group Chairman and the Nomination & Corporate 
Governance Committee, are proposed for re-election by shareholders 
at each AGM. They typically serve two three-year terms, with any 
individual’s appointment beyond six years to be for a rolling one-year 
term and subject to thorough review and challenge with reference to 
the needs of the Board. Where non-executive Directors are appointed 
beyond six years, an explanation will be provided in the Annual Report 
and Accounts. 
Shareholders vote at each AGM on whether to elect and re-elect 
individual Directors. All Directors that stood for election and reelection at the 2024 AGM were elected and re-elected by 
shareholders.
Joint Company Secretary
Aileen Taylor is the Group Company Secretary and Group Chief 
People & Governance Officer.
Hannah Ashdown (48) was appointed as Deputy Group Secretary in 
December 2021 and for administrative purposes, in October 2022, was 
appointed as Joint Company Secretary. She is a Fellow of the Chartered 
Governance Institute UK and Ireland. Hannah has over 20 years’ 
governance and regulatory experience across multiple sectors including 
financial services, asset management, energy, leisure and retail.
Independence
Independence is a critical component of good corporate governance, 
and a principle that is applied consistently at both the HSBC Holdings 
and subsidiary level. The Group Nomination & Corporate Governance 
Committee has delegated authority from the Board in relation to the 
assessment of the independence of non-executive Directors. In 
accordance with the UK and Hong Kong Corporate Governance 
Codes, the Group Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee 
has reviewed and confirmed that all non-executive Directors who 
have submitted themselves for election and re-election at the AGM 
are considered to be independent. This conclusion was reached after 
consideration of all relevant circumstances that are likely to impair, or 
could appear to impair, independence.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
321
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

In line with the requirements of the Hong Kong Corporate 
Governance Code, the Group Nomination & Corporate Governance 
Committee also reviewed and considered the mechanisms in place to 
ensure independent views and inputs are available to the Board. 
These mechanisms include: 
–
having the appropriate Board and committee structure in place, 
including rules on the appointment and tenure of non-executive 
Directors;
–
facilitating the option of having brokers and external industry 
experts in attendance at Board meetings during 2024, as well as 
having representatives from the Group’s key regulators attend 
Board meetings in relation to specific regulatory items;
–
ensuring non-executive Directors are entitled to obtain 
independent professional advice relating to their personal 
responsibilities as a Director at the Group’s expense;
–
having terms of reference for each committee and the Board that 
provide authority to engage independent professional advisers; 
and
–
holding annual Board and committee performance reviews, with 
feedback sought from members on the quality of, and access to, 
independent external advice.
Conflicts of interest
The Board has an established policy and set of procedures, which are 
reviewed annually, to ensure that the Board’s management of 
Directors’ conflicts of interest is effective. The Board has the power 
to authorise conflicts where they arise, in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006 and HSBC Holdings’ Articles of Association. 
Details of all Directors’ conflicts of interest are recorded in the 
register of conflicts. Upon appointment, new Directors are advised of 
the policy and procedures for managing conflicts. Directors are 
required to notify the Board of any actual or potential conflicts of 
interest and to update the Board with any changes to the facts and 
circumstances surrounding such conflicts. Directors are requested to 
review and confirm their own and their respective closely associated 
persons’ outside interests and appointments twice each year. The 
Board has considered, and authorised (with or without conditions) 
where appropriate, potential conflicts as they have arisen during the 
year in accordance with its conflicts policy and procedures. All nonexecutive Directors are subject to re-vetting by the Group’s 
compliance team on a triennial basis following appointment. As part 
of this re-vetting process, all conflict checks are refreshed.
Non-executive Director commitments
The terms and conditions of the appointments of non-executive 
Directors are set out in a letter of appointment, which includes the 
expectations of them, and the estimated time required to perform 
their role. Letters of appointment of each non-executive Director are 
available for inspection at the registered office of HSBC Holdings.
Non-executive Directors serving on the Board and as a member of 
any committees are expected to serve up to 75 days per annum. The 
Senior Independent Director is expected to serve an additional 30 
days per annum. Those Directors who also chair a large committee 
are expected to commit up to 100 days per annum, with the Group 
Risk Committee Chair expected to commit up to 150 days per annum. 
Any additional time commitment required of non-executive Directors 
in connection with Board and committee activities is confirmed to 
them separately.
Board approval is required for any non-executive Director’s external 
commitments, with consideration given to their total time 
commitments, potential conflicts of interest, and regulatory and 
investor expectations.
Directors’ indemnities
The Articles of Association of HSBC Holdings contain a qualifying 
third-party indemnity provision, which entitles Directors and other 
officers to be indemnified out of the assets of HSBC Holdings against 
claims from third parties in respect of certain liabilities.
HSBC Holdings has granted, by way of deed poll, indemnities to the 
Directors, including former Directors, against certain liabilities arising 
in connection with their position as a Director of HSBC Holdings or of 
any Group company. Directors are indemnified to the maximum 
extent permitted by law.
The indemnities that constitute a ’qualifying third-party indemnity 
provision’, as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, 
remained in force for the whole of the financial year (or, in the case of 
Directors appointed during 2024, from the date of their appointment). 
The deed poll is available for inspection at the registered office of 
HSBC Holdings.
Additionally, Directors and pension trustees have the benefit of both 
Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance and pension trustees’ liability 
insurance. Qualifying pension scheme indemnities have also been 
granted to the trustees of the Group’s pension schemes, which were 
in force for the whole of the financial year and remain in force as at 
the date of this report.
Contracts of significance 
During 2024, none of the Directors had a material interest, directly or 
indirectly, in any contract of significance with any HSBC company. 
During the year, all Directors were reminded of their obligations in 
respect of transacting in HSBC securities and, following specific 
enquiry, all Directors have confirmed that they have complied with 
their obligations.
Shareholder engagement and 
communication
The Board is directly accountable to, and gives high priority to 
communicating with, HSBC’s shareholders. Information about HSBC 
and its activities is provided to shareholders in its Interim Reports and 
the Annual Report and Accounts as well as on www.hsbc.com.
The Board seeks to understand investor needs through ongoing 
dialogue between members of the Board and institutional investors 
throughout the year. For examples of such engagement, see 
’Directors’ engagements with key stakeholders in 2024’ on page 21 
and the Group Remuneration Committee Chair’s letter on page 279. 
During 2024, approximately 612 meetings were held with institutional 
investors and analysts globally.
Our shareholder communications policy summarises how we 
communicate with our shareholders, including through financial 
reporting, general shareholder meetings, investor and analyst meetings 
and our website. The policy is reviewed annually by the Board, and in 
2024 the Board confirmed that it was satisfied with its implementation 
and effectiveness. The policy can be found at www.hsbc.com/who-weare/our-people/board-of-directors/board-responsibilities.
We also publish our current and past financial results, investor 
presentations and shareholder information such as dividend payments 
and shareholder meeting details. Stock exchange announcements are 
also accessible on our website along with information for fixed 
income investors. For further details, see www.hsbc.com/investors.
Directors are encouraged to develop an understanding of the views of 
shareholders. Enquiries from individuals on matters relating to their 
shareholdings and HSBC’s business are welcomed. Any individual or 
institutional investor can make an enquiry by contacting the investor 
relations team, Group Chairman, Group CEO, Group CFO and Group 
Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer. Our Senior 
Independent Director is also available to shareholders if they have 
concerns that cannot be resolved or for which the normal channels 
would not be appropriate. They can be contacted via the Group 
Company Secretary and Chief Governance Officer at 8 Canada 
Square, London E14 5HQ. 
Annual General Meeting
The AGM in 2025 is planned to be held in London, UK at 10:00am on 
Friday, 2 May 2025. Information on how to vote and participate, both 
in advance and on the day, can be found in the Notice of the 2025 
AGM, which will be sent to shareholders on 21 March 2025 and be 
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
322
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

available on www.hsbc.com/agm. A live webcast will be available on 
www.hsbc.com/agm. A recording of the proceedings will be available 
on www.hsbc.com/agm shortly after the conclusion of the AGM. 
Shareholders should monitor our website and announcements for any 
changes to these arrangements. Shareholders may send enquiries to 
the Board in writing via Company Secretary, HSBC Holdings plc, 
8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ or by sending an email to 
shareholderquestions@hsbc.com.
General meetings and resolutions
Shareholders may require the Directors to call a general meeting 
other than an AGM, as provided by the UK Companies Act 2006. A 
valid request to call a general meeting may be made by members 
representing at least 5% of the paid-up capital of HSBC Holdings as 
carries the right of voting at its general meetings (excluding any paidup capital held as treasury shares). A request must state the general 
nature of the business to be dealt with at the meeting and may 
include the text of a resolution that may properly be moved and is 
intended to be moved at the meeting. At any general meeting 
convened on such request, no business may be transacted except 
that stated by the requisition or proposed by the Board. 
Shareholders may request the Directors to send a resolution to 
shareholders for consideration at an AGM, as provided by the UK 
Companies Act 2006. A valid request must be made by 
(i) members representing at least 5% of the paid-up capital of HSBC 
Holdings as carries the right of voting at its general meetings 
(excluding any paid-up capital held as treasury shares), or (ii) at least 
100 members who have a right to vote on the resolution at the AGM 
in question and hold shares in HSBC Holdings on which there has 
been paid up an average sum, per member, of at least £100. 
The request must be received by HSBC Holdings not later than (i) six 
weeks before the AGM in question; or (ii) if later, the time at which 
the notice of AGM is published.
A request may be in hard copy form or in electronic form, and must 
be authenticated by the person or persons making it. A request may 
be made in writing to HSBC Holdings at its UK address, referred to in 
the paragraph above or by sending an email to 
shareholderquestions@hsbc.com. 
Articles of Association
The Articles of Association were last approved at the 2022 AGM. The 
Articles of Association can be found at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/
our-people/board-of-directors/board-responsibilities.
Events after the balance sheet date
For details of events after the balance sheet date, see Note 37 on the 
financial statements.
Change of control 
The Group is not party to any significant agreements that take effect, 
alter or terminate following a change of control of the Group. The 
Group does not have agreements with any Director or employee that 
would provide compensation for loss of office or employment 
resulting from a takeover bid. 
Branches
The Group provides a wide range of banking and financial services 
through branches and offices in the UK and overseas.
Research and development activities
During the ordinary course of business, the Group develops new 
products and services within the global businesses.
Political donations
HSBC does not make any political donations or incur political 
expenditure within the ordinary meaning of those words. We have no 
intention of altering this policy. However, the definitions of political 
donations, political parties, political organisations and political 
expenditure used in the UK Companies Act 2006 are very wide. As a 
result, they may cover routine activities that form part of the normal 
business activities of the Group and are an accepted part of engaging 
with stakeholders. To ensure that neither the Group nor any of its 
subsidiaries inadvertently breaches the UK Companies Act 2006, 
authority is sought from shareholders at the AGM to make political 
donations. 
HSBC provides administrative support to two political action 
committees (’PACs’) in the US funded by voluntary political 
contributions by eligible employees. We do not control the PACs, and 
all decisions regarding the amounts and recipients of contributions are 
directed by a voluntary Board Finance Committee, which consists of 
contributing eligible employees. The PACs recorded combined 
political donations of $124,450 during 2024 (2023: $110,004).
Charitable contributions
For details of charitable contributions, see page 72.
Internal control 
The Board is responsible for monitoring the Group’s risk management 
and internal control systems, determining the level and type of risks 
the Group is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives, and 
reviewing the effectiveness of these procedures on an annual basis.
To meet this requirement and to discharge its obligations under the 
FCA Handbook and the PRA Rulebook, procedures have been 
designed to provide reasonable assurance against material 
misstatement, errors, losses or fraud. They are designed to provide 
effective internal control within the Group and accord with the 
Financial Reporting Council‘s guidance for Directors, issued in 2014, 
on risk management, internal control and related financial and 
business reporting. The procedures have been in place throughout the 
year and up to 19 February 2025, the date of publication of the Annual 
Report and Accounts 2024.
The Board, the GRC and the GAC monitored the effectiveness of the 
Group’s system of risk management and internal control during the 
year through regular updates on the operation of the Group's internal 
controls, supplemented by reviews of these controls by the second 
line of defence and internal audit, and the external auditors. In 
particular, this focused on the Group’s regulatory remediation and 
change programmes, and involved working closely with management 
to better prioritise and understand where there are key 
interdependencies. These reviews enabled to the Board to perform an 
annual review of effectiveness, identifying no material weaknesses as 
at the year-end. To support the work of the Board, the GRC and the 
GAC in discharging their responsibilities in this regard, assurance was 
also provided by executive management confirming that a risk 
assessment had been undertaken and controls were in place to 
mitigate the risks arising from the Group’s key activities. Necessary 
actions will be taken to remedy any failings or weaknesses identified 
from these activities on an ongoing basis.
In 2025, continued focus will be placed on the quality and timeliness 
of data used to inform management decisions and support oversight 
of emerging risks and potential risks arising from new products and 
offerings. In preparation for the Board’s forthcoming responsibility 
under the 2024 UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board approved 
changes to the scope of the GAC’s responsibilities in relation to 
internal controls to extend these to cover all internal controls and, 
once defined, all material controls including financial, operational, 
reporting and compliance controls.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
323
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The key risk management and internal control procedures include the 
following:
The HSBC Book
In 2024, the HSBC Book replaced the Global Principles document and 
is situated at the top of the HSBC document hierarchy. It underpins 
the key principles, policies and procedures that are fundamental to 
the Group’s risk management structure. It informs and connects our 
purpose, ambition, strategy and values, guiding us to make 
responsible decisions aligned to our risk culture and risk management 
approach, to do the right thing, and to treat our customers and our 
colleagues fairly at all times.
Risk management framework 
The risk management framework supports our HSBC Book. It outlines 
the key principles and practices that we employ in managing material 
risks. It applies to all categories of risk and supports a consistent 
approach in identifying, assessing, managing and reporting the risks 
we accept and incur in our activities. 
Delegation of authority within limits 
set by the Board
Subject to certain matters reserved for the Board, the Group CEO has 
been delegated authority limits and powers within which to manage the 
day-to-day affairs of the Group. A delegation of authority framework is in 
place providing a Group structure within which the Board and its 
subsidiaries can manage their delegated powers. These delegated 
authorities can be used for the approval, signing and execution of 
specific written agreements and documents such as procurement 
contracts.
The delegation of authority framework is adopted on a legal entity basis 
via a board resolution which is reviewed annually. Matters not covered 
by the delegation of authority framework can be set out in a separate 
board resolution, powers of attorney or the relevant Group policy with 
clear systems of control that are appropriate to the business or function. 
Authorities to enter into credit and market risk exposures are delegated 
with limits to line management of Group companies in line with Group 
policy. Credit and market risks are measured and reported at subsidiary 
company level and aggregated for risk concentration analysis on a 
Group-wide basis.
Risk identification and monitoring
Systems and procedures are in place to identify, assess, control and 
monitor the material risk types facing HSBC as set out in the risk 
management framework. The Group‘s risk measurement and 
reporting systems are designed to help ensure that material risks are 
captured with all the attributes necessary to support well-founded 
decisions, that those attributes are accurately assessed and that 
information is delivered in a timely manner for those risks to be 
successfully managed and mitigated.
Changes in market conditions/
practices
Processes are in place to identify new risks arising from changes in 
market conditions/practices or customer behaviours, which could 
expose the Group to heightened risk of loss or reputational damage. 
The Group employs both a top and emerging risks process to provide 
forward-looking views of issues with the potential to threaten the 
execution of our strategy or operations over the medium to long term. 
We remain committed to investing in the reliability and resilience of 
our IT systems and critical services, including those provided by third 
parties, that support all parts of our business. We do so to help 
protect our customers, affiliates and counterparties, and to help 
ensure that we minimise any disruption to services that could result in 
reputational and regulatory consequences. In our approach to defend 
against these threats, we invest in business and technical controls to 
help us detect, manage and recover from issues, including data loss, 
in a timely manner.
We continue our focus on the quality and timeliness of the data used 
to inform management decisions, through measures such as early 
warning indicators, prudent active risk management of our risk 
appetite, and ensuring regular communication with our Board and 
other key stakeholders.
Responsibility for risk management
All employees are responsible for identifying and managing risk within 
the scope of their role as part of the three lines of defence model. 
This is an activity-based model to delineate management 
accountabilities and responsibilities for risk management and the 
control environment. The second line of defence sets the policy and 
guidelines for managing specific risk areas, provides advice and 
guidance in relation to the risk, and challenges the first line of defence 
(the risk owners) on effective risk management.
The Board delegated authority to the GAC to annually review the 
independence, autonomy and effectiveness of the Group’s policies 
and procedures on whistleblowing, including the procedures for the 
protection of staff who raise concerns of detrimental treatment. 
Strategic plans
Strategic plans are prepared for global businesses, global functions 
and geographical regions within the framework of the Group’s overall 
strategy. Financial resource plans, informed by detailed analysis of 
risk appetite describing the types and quantum of risk that the Group 
is prepared to take in executing its strategy, are prepared and adopted 
by all major Group operating companies and set out the key business 
initiatives and the likely financial effects of those initiatives.
Internal control over financial 
reporting
HSBC is required to comply with section 404 of the US SarbanesOxley Act of 2002 and assess its effectiveness of internal control over 
financial reporting at 31 December 2024. In 2014, the GAC endorsed 
the adoption of the principles of the Committee of Sponsoring 
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (’COSO’) 2013 
framework for the monitoring of risk management and internal control 
systems to satisfy the requirements of section 404 of the SarbanesOxley Act.
The primary mechanism through which comfort over risk 
management and internal control systems is achieved is through 
annual assessments of the effectiveness of controls to manage risk, 
and the reporting of issues on a regular basis through the various risk 
management and risk governance forums, including regular updates 
to GAC.
The key risk management and internal control procedures over 
financial reporting include the following:
Entity level controls
Entity level controls are a defined suite of internal controls that have a 
pervasive influence over the entity as a whole and meet the principles 
of the COSO framework. They include controls related to the control 
environment, such as the Group’s values and ethics, the promotion of 
effective risk management and the overarching governance exercised 
by the Board and its non-executive committees. The design and 
operational effectiveness of entity level controls are assessed on an 
ongoing basis. If issues are significant to the Group, they are 
escalated to the GRC and / or the GAC. 
Process level transactional controls
Key process level controls that mitigate the risk of financial 
misstatement are identified, recorded and monitored in accordance 
with the risk framework. This includes the identification and 
assessment of relevant control issues against which action plans are 
tracked through to remediation. Further details of HSBC’s approach to 
risk management can be found on page 127.
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
324
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Financial reporting controls
The Group’s financial reporting process is controlled using 
documented accounting policies and reporting formats, supported by 
detailed instructions and guidance on reporting requirements, issued 
to all reporting entities within the Group in advance of each reporting 
period end. The submission of financial information from each 
reporting entity is supported by a certification by the responsible 
financial officer and analytical review procedures at reporting entity 
and Group levels.
Group Disclosure and Controls 
Committee
Chaired by the Group CFO, the Group Disclosure and Controls 
Committee supports the discharge of the Group’s obligations under 
relevant legislation and regulation including the UK and Hong Kong 
listing rules, the UK Market Abuse Regulation and US Securities and 
Exchange Commission rules. In so doing, the Group Disclosure and 
Controls Committee is empowered to determine whether a new 
event or circumstance should be disclosed, including the form and 
timing of such disclosure, and review certain material disclosures 
made or to be made by the Group. The membership of the Group 
Disclosure and Controls Committee consists of senior management, 
including the Group CFO, Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer; 
Group Chief Legal Officer; and Group Chief People and Governance 
Officer. The Group’s external auditors are standing attendees, while 
the Group's brokers and external legal counsel are consulted on 
relevant matters and attend as required. The integrity of disclosures is 
underpinned by structures and processes within the Global Finance 
and Group Risk and Compliance functions that support rigorous 
analytical review of financial reporting and the maintenance of proper 
accounting records. As required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Group 
CEO and the Group CFO have certified that the Group’s disclosure 
controls and procedures were effective as at the end of the period 
covered by the Annual Report and Accounts 2024.
The annual review of the effectiveness of the Group’s system of risk 
management and internal control over financial reporting was 
conducted with reference to the COSO 2013 framework. Based on 
the assessment performed, the Directors concluded that for the year 
ended 31 December 2024, the Group’s internal control over financial 
reporting was effective.
PwC has audited the effectiveness of HSBC’s internal control over 
financial reporting and has given an unqualified opinion. 
Other information included in the 
Annual Report and Accounts 2024
We include other non-statutory information in the Annual Report and 
Accounts to enable a broader perspective of our performance for the 
period, including ESG and regulatory capital and liquidity information.
On page 43 we highlight the challenges we face in our sustainability 
and climate reporting alongside the key changes we have made to our 
2024 climate disclosures. Strengthening our global regulatory 
reporting processes with an aim to enhance data, consistency, and 
controls remains a key priority for the Group and regulatory 
authorities. See page 201 for further details. The GAC provides 
oversight to our reporting across these areas, including the disclosure 
risks in relation to sustainability and climate reporting, and monitoring 
of the programme of work to address the quality and reliability of 
regulatory reporting. See page 265 for further details.
Going concern
The Board, having made appropriate enquiries, is satisfied that the 
Group as a whole has adequate resources to continue operations for a 
period of at least 12 months from the date of this report, and it 
therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the 
financial statements.
For further details, see page 40.
Employees
At 31 December 2024, HSBC had a total workforce equivalent to 
211,000 full-time employees compared with 221,000 at the end of 
2023. Our main centres of employment were India with 
approximately 44,000 employees, the UK with 35,000, mainland 
China with 33,000, Hong Kong with 27,000, and Mexico with 16,000.
Our business spans many cultures, communities and continents. We 
aspire to provide a high-performing environment where our 
colleagues can fulfil their potential by building their skills and 
capabilities while focusing on the development of a diverse and 
inclusive culture. We use employee surveys to assess progress and 
make changes. We want to provide an open culture, where our 
colleagues feel connected and supported to speak up, and where our 
leaders encourage and use feedback. Where we make organisational 
changes, we support our colleagues, in particular where there are job 
impacts. 
Employee relations
We consult with and, where appropriate, negotiate with employee 
representative bodies where we have them. It is our policy to 
maintain well-developed communications and consultation 
programmes with all employee representative bodies. There have 
been no material disruptions to our operations from labour disputes 
during the past five years. 
We are committed to complying with the applicable employment laws 
and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate, including in 
relation to working hours and rest periods. HSBC’s employment 
practices and relations policy provides the framework and controls 
through which we seek to uphold that commitment.
Inclusion
Our customers, colleagues and communities span many cultures and 
continents. We value difference and believe that an inclusive culture 
makes us stronger. We are dedicated to building a connected 
workforce where everyone feels a sense of belonging. 
We expect all colleagues at HSBC to treat each other with dignity and 
respect to ensure an inclusive environment. Our policies make it clear 
that we do not tolerate unlawful discrimination, bullying or 
harassment on any grounds. We are transparent in sharing our data 
through external disclosures and we participate in benchmarking to 
measure our progress across the industry.
Our approach to inclusion is set out on page 64 alongside our 
ambitions and progress. 
 For further details of our representation data, pay gap data, and actions, see 
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/our-people/inclusion-at-hsbc and the ESG Data 
Pack at www.hsbc.com/esg
Employment of people with a 
disability
We strongly believe in providing equal opportunities for our 
employees. The employment of people with a disability is included in 
this commitment. We are committed to retaining disabled employees 
in the workplace and to providing reasonable adjustments to enable 
this. 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
325
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Employee development
Employee development energises our colleagues for growth and 
helps to equip them with the skills they need today whilst also 
preparing them to meet future challenges. We remain committed to 
delivering a high-quality learning experience by adopting a data-driven 
approach that targets our learning investment to meet the most 
critical skill needs. 
By leveraging our strategic workforce blueprints, we have focused our 
efforts on critical skill shifts, including digitally enabling our frontline 
colleagues and developing the sustainability and wealth expertise of 
our relationship managers, providing a variety of learning opportunities 
through our Enterprise Skills Academies.
We have launched our new AI Academy to support advanced skills 
development aligned with HSBC’s AI strategy, expanded our 'Doing 
Business in India and China' programmes to include Saudi Arabia, and 
increased our focus on building capabilities beyond foundational skills 
through our Sustainability Academy. In our global Wealth and Personal 
Banking business we have focused our attention on developing 
customer centricity and product expertise, and we have created 
opportunities for colleagues to develop new skills and collaborate 
more broadly through our transition to a value stream delivery model 
as part of our bank wide Digital Acceleration Programme.
We remain committed to our global mandatory training to complete 
annually, as it is essential for shaping our culture and maintaining a 
focus on critical issues, such as sustainability and financial crime risk. 
In line with this commitment, we have maintained our focus on senior 
leaders by launching new programs centred on Enterprise Risk 
Leadership, which are designed to equip them with the skills 
necessary to navigate an evolving risk environment.
Effective leadership is essential for empowering our colleagues to 
develop critical skills, fostering a robust talent pipeline, and supporting 
our strategic ambitions. To facilitate this, we have introduced the 
Career Academy, which enables our colleagues to explore their 
aspirations, and continued to evolve our flagship Enterprise 
Leadership Programs, including uGrow, Accelerating Women’s 
Leadership, and Accelerating into Leadership.
We have also expanded our Managing Director leadership offering, 
supported by a Leadership 360 survey, to ensure comprehensive 
development and alignment with our strategic goals.
Health and safety
We are committed to providing a safe and healthy working 
environment for everyone. We have adopted global policies, 
mandatory procedures, and incident and information reporting 
systems across the organisation that reflect our core values and are 
aligned to international standards. Our global health and safety 
performance is subject to ongoing monitoring and assurance to 
ensure we are compliant with relevant laws and regulations.
Our chief operating officers have overall responsibility for engendering 
a positive health and safety culture and ensuring that global policies, 
procedures and systems are put into practice locally. They also have 
responsibility for ensuring all local legal requirements are met. 
We delivered a range of activities in 2024 to help us understand and 
manage our health and safety risks:
–
We achieved the WELL Health and Safety Rating from the
International WELL Building Institute at 54 of our global offices as
a demonstration of our commitment to the provision of safe and
healthy workplaces for our employees, customers and
stakeholders.
–
We reinforced our advice and risk assessment and control
methodology on working from home for employees adopting a
hybrid work style, providing more awareness and best practices on
good ergonomics and well-being.
–
We delivered health and safety training and awareness to 228,000
of our employees and contractors globally, ensuring roles and
responsibilities were clear and understood.
–
We completed the annual safety inspection on all of our buildings
globally, to ensure we were meeting our standards and
continuously improving our safety performance.
–
We maintained measures in our workplaces globally to minimise
the risks from the spread of respiratory disease, including through
the provision of hand sanitiser, improved ventilation and guidance
on good hygiene practices.
–
We extended the reach of our Workplace Adjustments programme
to include all colleagues in India, providing tools and
technologies which contribute to making work-life manageable for
employees with disability (including physical or sensory), long
term / mental health condition or a neurodiversity, and will
continue the expansion of this programme to further Regions.
–
We continued to hold health & safety themed awareness campaigns
and facilitate CPR and first aid training for our colleagues.
–
We continued to provide our guidance and training programme for
our construction partners, focusing on our key markets globally to
reduce the likelihood of accidents occurring by helping them
understand and deliver industry-leading health and safety
performance. More than 7,200 construction workers received
safety passport training across 13 countries.
–
In 2024, we achieved full implementation of the Eat Well Live Well
programme across 100% of catered HSBC sites, driving global
healthy food sales to 32% with over 10% of all dishes sold globally
being plant-based. These results were supported by monthly Eat
Well Live Well events, and virtual teaching kitchens accessible to
all employees.
–
Protection of our colleagues and operations is of critical importance,
and we have effective controls in place to protect our people from
natural disasters (such as storms and earthquakes). In 2024, there
were 40 named storms that passed over 3,127 of our buildings,
resulting in no injuries and only a minor impact on 3 of our buildings.
Employee health and safety
2024
2023
2022
Rate of workplace fatalities per 100,000 employees
— 
—
—
Number of major injuries to employees1
14 
12 
7 
All injury rate per 100,000 employees
91 
110 
70 
Lost days due to work injury
335 
594 
485 
1
Fractures, dislocation, concussion, loss of consciousness, overnight 
admission to hospital.
Remuneration 
HSBC’s pay and performance strategy is designed to reward 
competitively the achievement of long-term sustainable performance 
and attract and motivate the very best people, regardless of gender, 
ethnicity, age, disability or any other factor unrelated to performance 
or experience with the Group, while performing their role in the longterm interests of our stakeholders.
For further details of the Group’s approach to remuneration, see page 301. 
Employee share plans
Summaries of the share options and share awards granted, exercised/
vested or lapsed during the year and other details required to be 
disclosed pursuant to Chapter 17 of the Rules Governing the Listing 
of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, including 
detailed summaries of the HSBC share plans, are available on our 
website at www.hsbc.com/investors/results-and-announcements and 
on the website of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited at 
www.hkex.com.hk, or can be obtained upon request from the 
Company Secretary, 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ.
Particulars of options held by Directors of HSBC Holdings are set out on 
page 310.
Note 5 on the financial statements gives details of share-based payments, 
including discretionary awards of shares granted under HSBC share plans. 
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
326
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Statement of compliance
The statement of corporate governance practices set out on pages 
236 to 328 and the information referred to therein constitutes the 
’Corporate governance report’ and ’Report of the Directors’ of HSBC 
Holdings for 2024. Further details of the relevant corporate 
governance codes, role profiles and policies can be obtained from the 
websites referenced in the table below. The websites referred to do 
not form part of this report. 
Relevant corporate governance codes, role profiles and policies
UK Corporate Governance Code
www.frc.org.uk
Hong Kong Corporate 
Governance Code (set out in 
Appendix C1 to the Rules 
Governing the Listing of 
Securities on the Stock 
Exchange of Hong Kong Limited 
(’HKEx’))
www.hkex.com.hk
Descriptions of the roles and 
responsibilities of the:
– Group Chairman
– Group Chief Executive Officer
– Senior Independent Director
– Board
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/ourpeople/board-of-directors/boardresponsibilities
Board and senior management
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/ourpeople
Roles and responsibilities of the 
Board’s committees
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/ourpeople/board-of-directors/boardcommittees
Board’s policies on:
– diversity and inclusion
– shareholder communication
– human rights
– remuneration practices and
governance
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/ourpeople/board-of-directors/boardresponsibilities
Global Internal Audit Charter
www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esgand-responsible-business/
governance/internal-control
HSBC is subject to corporate governance requirements in both the UK 
and Hong Kong. During 2024, HSBC complied with the provisions and 
requirements of both the UK and Hong Kong Corporate Governance 
Codes.
Under the Hong Kong Corporate Governance Code, the audit 
committee should be responsible for the oversight of all risk 
management and internal control systems. During 2024, the Board 
approved changes to the scope of the Group Audit Committee’s 
responsibilities in relation to internal controls to extend these to cover 
oversight of the effectiveness of all internal controls. HSBC’s Group 
Risk Committee retains oversight of internal controls relating to risk 
management and risk management systems and provides input to the 
Group Audit Committee on these.
HSBC Holdings has codified obligations for transactions in Group 
securities in accordance with the requirements of the UK Market 
Abuse Regulation and the rules governing the listing of securities on 
HKEx. The Group has been granted certain waivers by HKEx from 
strict compliance with the rules that take into account accepted 
practices in the UK, particularly in respect of employee share plans. 
During the year, all Directors were reminded of their obligations in 
respect of transacting in HSBC Group securities. Following specific 
enquiry all Directors have confirmed that they have complied with 
their obligations. 
The Group Audit Committee has reviewed and provided assurance to 
support the HSBC Holdings Board’s approval and publication of the 
Annual Report and Accounts 2024.
On behalf of the Board
Sir Mark E Tucker
Group Chairman
HSBC Holdings plc
Registered number 617987
19 February 2025
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
327
Corporate governance

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Directors’ responsibility statement
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and 
Accounts 2024, the Directors’ remuneration report and the financial 
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements 
for each financial year. Under that law, the Directors have prepared 
the parent company (‘Company’) and the Group financial statements 
in accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards. 
The company has also prepared financial statements in accordance 
with international financial reporting standards adopted pursuant to 
Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies in the European Union. In 
preparing these financial statements, the Directors have complied 
with International Financial Reporting Standards issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board (’IFRS Accounting 
Standards’). Under company law, the Directors must not approve the 
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and 
fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and Group, and of the 
profit or loss of the Company and the Group for that period. In 
preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to:
–
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them 
consistently;
–
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable 
and prudent; 
–
state whether applicable UK-adopted international accounting 
standards, international financial reporting standards adopted 
pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies in the 
European Union and IFRS Accounting Standards have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and 
explained in the financial statements; and
–
prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it 
is inappropriate to presume that the Company and Group will 
continue in business.
The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the 
Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for 
the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. 
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting 
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s 
transactions, and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to 
ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’ remuneration 
report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the 
Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. 
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the 
Annual Report and Accounts 2024 as they appear on the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation 
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation 
in other jurisdictions.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts 2024, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s 
position and performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the 
‘Report of the Directors: Corporate governance report’ on pages 237 
to 241 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2024, confirms that, to the 
best of their knowledge:
–
the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in 
accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards 
and with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, 
international financial reporting standards adopted pursuant to 
Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies in the European Union 
and IFRS Accounting Standards, give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities, financial position, and profit or loss of the Group; 
and
–
the management report represented by the Report of the 
Directors includes a fair review of the development and 
performance of the business and the position of the Group, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties 
that it faces.
The Group Audit Committee has responsibility, delegated to it from 
the Board, for overseeing all matters relating to external financial 
reporting. The Group Audit Committee report on page 263 sets out 
how the Group Audit Committee discharges its responsibilities.
Disclosure of information to auditors 
In accordance with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, the 
Directors’ report includes a statement, in the case of each Director in 
office as at the date the Report of the Directors is approved, that:
–
so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware; and
–
they have taken all the steps they ought to have taken as a 
Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are 
aware of that information.
On behalf of the Board
Sir Mark E Tucker
Group Chairman
HSBC Holdings plc
Registered number 617987
19 February 2025
Report of the Directors | Corporate governance report
328
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
329
Financial
statements
The financial statements provide detailed 
information and notes on our income, balance 
sheet, cash flows and changes in equity, 
alongside a report from our independent auditors.
330
Independent auditors’ report to the members of 
HSBC Holdings plc
341
Financial statements
341
– Consolidated income statement
342
– Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
343
– Consolidated balance sheet
344
– Consolidated statement of changes in equity
347
– Consolidated statement of cash flows
349
– HSBC Holdings financial statements
353
Notes on the financial statements
Hong Kong, 2019. Colleague Collaboration.
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Independent auditors’ report to the 
members of HSBC Holdings plc
Report on the audit of the financial statements
Opinion
In our opinion, HSBC Holdings plc’s Group financial statements 
and parent company financial statements (the ‘financial 
statements’):
–
give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the 
parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2024 and of the 
Group’s and parent company’s profit and the Group’s and 
parent company’s cash flows for the year then ended;
–
have been properly prepared in accordance with UK-adopted 
international accounting standards; and
–
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of 
the Companies Act 2006.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the 
Annual Report and Accounts 2024 (the ‘Annual Report’), which 
comprise: 
–
the consolidated and parent company balance sheets as at 
31 December 2024; 
–
the consolidated and parent company income statements; the 
consolidated and parent company statements of 
comprehensive income; the consolidated and parent company 
statements of changes in equity; and the consolidated and 
parent company statements of cash flows for the year then 
ended; and 
–
the notes on the financial statements, comprising material 
accounting policy information and other explanatory 
information.
Certain notes on the financial statements have been presented 
elsewhere in the Annual Report and have been cross referenced 
from the financial statements and marked as ‘Audited’. These are 
described further in note 1.1 (e) Presentation of information. 
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Group Audit 
Committee (‘GAC’).
As explained in note 1.1(a) on the financial statements the Group and 
parent company have also applied International Financial Reporting 
Standards (‘IFRS’) adopted pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 
as it applies in the European Union and IFRSs as issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’). 
In our opinion, the Group and parent company financial statements 
have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted 
pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies in the 
European Union, and have been properly prepared in accordance with 
IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on 
Auditing (UK) (‘ISAs (UK)’), International Standards on Auditing issued by 
the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (‘ISAs’) and 
applicable law. Our responsibilities under ISAs (UK) and ISAs are further 
described in the Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial 
statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we 
have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our 
opinion.
Independence and appointment
This is the first year that it has been my responsibility to form this 
opinion on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, who, following 
the recommendation of the GAC, were first appointed as auditor on 
31 March 2015 by the members for the year ended 31 December 
2015 and subsequent financial periods. Following re-tender, we were 
then reappointed as auditor for the year ended 31 December 2025.
Total period of uninterrupted engagement
We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the 
ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial 
statements in the UK, which includes the FRC’s Ethical Standard, as 
applicable to listed public interest entities, and the International Code 
of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International 
Independence Standards) issued by the International Ethics 
Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA Code), and we have fulfilled 
our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these 
requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit 
services prohibited by either the FRC’s Ethical Standard or Article 5(1) 
of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 were not provided.
Other than those disclosed in note 6, we have provided no non-audit 
services to the parent company or its controlled undertakings in the 
period under audit.
Independent auditors’ report to the members of HSBC Holdings plc
330
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
31 Mar 
2015
31 Dec 
2015
Period of total 
uninterrupted engagement 
(10 years)
31 Dec 
2024
31 Dec 
2025
Appointed
First 
year-end
Current 
year-end
First yearend 
following 
re-tender

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Our audit approach
Overview 
Audit scope
Key audit matters
Our risk assessment and scoping identified six entities (collectively the 
‘Significant Components’) for which we obtained audit opinions.
Expected credit losses – Loans and advances 
to customers (Group) 
Year on year:
Consistent
We performed full scope audits of four Significant Components: The Hongkong and 
Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, HSBC Holdings plc, HSBC Bank plc and 
HSBC UK Bank plc.
For two Significant Components, we obtained audit opinions over specific 
balances based on either the size or risk profile of those balances: HSBC North 
America Holdings Inc and HSBC Mexico S.A..
Impairment of investment in associate – Bank 
of Communications Co., Ltd ('BoCom') (Group) 
Year on year:
Consistent
In addition, for a further three components, we performed audit work over centralised 
functions supporting specific balances.
Specific audit procedures in relation to various Group activities, including IT general 
controls, IT dependencies, forward looking economic scenarios for expected credit 
losses (‘ECL’), operating expenses, intangible assets, payroll and consolidation were 
performed by the Group team centrally.
Valuation of defined benefit pension 
obligations (Group) 
Year on year:
Consistent
•••• •• •••
Investments in subsidiaries (parent company) 
Year on year:
Consistent
4 
full scope component 
audits
2 
components with audit 
opinions over specific 
balances
3 
components with audit 
work over centralised 
functions
Materiality
Overall Group materiality
Based on 5% of profit before tax excluding notable items.
$1.5bn
Overall parent company materiality
Based on 0.75% of total assets. This would result in an overall 
materiality of $2.06bn and was therefore reduced below the 
Group materiality.
$1.4bn
Performance materiality 
Group
Parent
$1.1bn
$1.1bn
Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors’ professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial 
statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) 
identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy; the allocation of resources in the audit; 
and directing the efforts of the engagement team. These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were 
addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a 
separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks or other matters identified by our audit. During our engagement with the GAC we also provided written 
and verbal observations on other areas of accounting judgement including the valuation of financial instruments, legal proceedings and 
regulatory matters, the impact of acquisitions and disposals, tax-related judgements and the related control considerations arising from our 
audit.
The key audit matters below are consistent with last year, although the specific test plans have evolved to take account of developments at 
HSBC and in its operating environment. Examples of HSBC specific developments included the change in CEO and the strategic initiatives 
subsequently announced. Examples of operating environment changes include macro-economic developments in key markets and government 
actions to manage economic conditions.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
331
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Expected credit losses - Loans and advances to customers (Group)
Background
Procedures performed
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts 2024: Refer 
to the Audited credit risk disclosures, Group Audit Committee Report, 
Note 1.2(d): Financial instruments measured at amortised cost and 
Note 1.2(i): Impairment of amortised cost and FVOCI financial assets.
Determining ECL involves management judgement and is subject to a 
high degree of estimation uncertainty. Management makes various 
assumptions when estimating ECL. We performed a risk assessment 
to identify those assumptions with significant levels of management 
judgement and for which variations had the most material impact on 
ECL.
Assumptions were made in determining economic scenarios and their 
probability weightings (specifically the central and downside scenarios 
given these have the most material impact on ECL) and estimating 
discounted cash flows for significant credit impaired exposures in 
relation to the mainland China commercial real estate portfolio. The 
level of estimation uncertainty and judgement in these areas has 
remained elevated during 2024 as a result of continued uncertainties 
in the macroeconomic and geopolitical environment and the higher 
interest rate environment, as well as developments in mainland 
China's commercial real estate sector and economy more broadly. 
Macroeconomic conditions vary between territories and industry 
sectors, requiring judgement in determining the severity and 
probability weighting of economic scenarios used in ECL models. 
The modelling methodologies used to estimate ECL are developed 
using historical experience. We assess the impact of limitations in 
these methodologies when forecasting the extent and timing of 
future customer defaults or when responding to emerging risks, such 
as climate risk. The focus of our assessment of the impact of climate 
risk on ECL was to evaluate management’s risk assessment process 
for identifying, quantifying and concluding that the impact of climate 
risk on ECL for the year end was immaterial. 
We assessed the design and effectiveness of governance and 
controls over the estimation of ECL. We observed management's 
review and challenge in governance forums for (1) the determination 
of economic scenarios and their probability weightings, and (2) the 
assessment of ECL for Retail and Wholesale portfolios.
We also tested controls over:
–
model validation and monitoring;
–
the identification of credit impaired triggers;
–
the input of critical data into source systems and the flow and 
transformation of critical data from source systems to impairment 
models; and
–
approval of significant individual impairments.
We involved our economic experts in assessing the significant 
assumptions made in determining the severity and probability 
weighting of economic scenarios. These assessments considered the 
sensitivity of ECL to variations in the severity and probability weighting 
of economic scenarios. We also involved our modelling specialists in 
assessing the appropriateness of the significant assumptions and 
methodologies used for the ECL models. We independently reperformed the calculations for a sample of those models. In respect of 
the mainland China commercial real estate portfolio, we had oversight 
of the audit work performed by our component team in Hong Kong. 
This work included involving business recovery experts in assessing 
the discounted cash flows for a sample of significant credit impaired 
exposures. We further considered whether the judgements made in 
selecting the significant assumptions would give rise to indicators of 
possible management bias.
We evaluated management’s risk assessment in respect of the impact 
of climate change on the ECL provision, including involving our 
modelling specialists to evaluate the stress testing and scenario analysis 
methodology used and sensitising key assumptions. Finally, we tested 
the Audited credit risk disclosures made in the Annual Report. 
Overall, we found the ECL on loans and advances to customers to be 
reasonable.
Observations discussed with the Group Audit Committee
We reported to the GAC our observations covering governance and controls, the assumptions used and the modelling methodologies 
implemented by management in determining ECL, with a significant focus on the uncertain prevailing macroeconomic conditions and 
developments in mainland China's commercial real estate sector. Our observations regarded:
–
the severity of economic scenarios, and their related probability weightings, across territories;
–
significant assumptions used to estimate the discounted cash flow projections for defaulted exposures in relation to the mainland China 
commercial real estate portfolio; and 
–
the disclosures made in relation to ECL.
Independent auditors’ report to the members of HSBC Holdings plc
332
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Impairment of investment in associate - Bank of Communications Co., Ltd ('BoCom') (Group)
Background
Procedures performed
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts 2024: Refer 
to the Group Audit Committee Report, Note 1.2(a): Consolidation and 
related policies and Note 18: Interests in associates and joint 
ventures.
2024 is the first annual reporting period after the Group impaired its 
investment in BoCom, the carrying value of which amounted to 
$22.4bn at 31 December 2024. The estimation uncertainty related to 
the investment remained high in 2024 and further policy 
announcements were made in relation to fiscal stimulus packages by 
the government in China.
The carrying value is required to be assessed for indicators of 
potential further impairment and reversal of previous impairment. No 
indicators of further impairment or reversal of previous impairment in 
the investment in BoCom have been identified at 31 December 2024. 
Management’s assessment of impairment or reversal of previous 
impairment indicators is supported by an estimation of the 
recoverable amount using a value in use (‘VIU’) model. The VIU model 
estimates future cash flows expected to be derived from the 
investment in BoCom in its current condition and does not reflect the 
impact of future capital transactions. The VIU model continues to be a 
permissible method to estimate the recoverable amount.
The methodology applied in the VIU model is dependent on various 
assumptions, both short to medium term and long term in nature. 
These assumptions, which are subject to estimation uncertainty, are 
derived from a combination of management's judgement, analysts' 
forecasts, market data or other relevant information. 
The assumptions that we focused our audit on were those with 
greater levels of management judgement and subjectivity, and for 
which variations had the most significant impact on the VIU. 
Specifically, these significant assumptions included: 
–
the discount rate; 
–
short to medium term assumptions for operating income growth 
rate, loans and advances to customers growth rate, cost-income 
ratio, and expected credit losses as a percentage of loans and 
advances to customers; 
–
long-term assumptions for profit growth rate, asset growth rate, 
expected credit losses as a percentage of loans and advances to 
customers, and effective tax rates; and 
–
capital related assumptions (risk-weighted assets as a percentage 
of total assets and capital adequacy ratios).
We had oversight of the audit work performed by our component 
audit team in Hong Kong in relation to the impairment indicator 
assessment of BoCom. This work included:
–
testing controls in place over the significant assumptions, the 
methodology and its consistent application period over period 
used in the impairment indicator assessment, assessing the 
appropriateness of the methodology used, its application, and the 
mathematical accuracy of the calculations;
–
challenging the appropriateness of the significant assumptions 
and, where relevant, their interrelationships;
–
obtaining evidence to corroborate and challenge the data 
supporting significant assumptions, which included past 
experience, external market information, third-party sources 
including analyst reports, information from BoCom management 
and historical publicly available BoCom financial information;
–
determining an independent reasonable range for the discount 
rate assumption, with the assistance of our valuation experts, and 
comparing it to the discount rate used by management;
–
assessing whether the judgements made in determining the 
significant assumptions would give rise to indicators of possible 
management bias; 
–
attending certain meetings alongside management and BoCom 
management to identify facts and circumstances impacting 
significant assumptions relevant to the determination of the VIU; 
and
–
evaluating and testing the disclosures in relation to BoCom in the 
Annual Report.
Representations were obtained from management that assumptions 
used were consistent with information currently available to the 
Group.
Overall, we found management’s assessment of impairment, or 
reversal of previous impairment, indicators to be reasonable.
Observations discussed with the Group Audit Committee
We reported to the GAC our observations on the appropriateness of the methodology, the consistency of its application period over period 
and significant assumptions. This included our observations regarding management’s approach to ongoing impairment monitoring including 
whether there are indicators of further impairment or reversal to previous impairment, the appropriateness of significant assumptions used 
in the VIU, and the disclosures made in relation to BoCom, including the use of sensitivity analysis to explain estimation uncertainty.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
333
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Valuation of defined benefit pension obligations (Group)
Background
Procedures performed
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts 2024: Refer to 
the Group Audit Committee Report, Note 1.2(k): Employee 
compensation and benefits and Note 5: Employee compensation and 
benefits.
The Group has a defined benefit obligation of US$24.0bn, of which 
US$17.2bn relates to HSBC Bank (UK) pension scheme ('the principal 
plan').
The valuation of the defined benefit obligation for the principal plan is 
dependent on a number of actuarial assumptions. Management uses an 
actuarial expert to determine the valuation of the defined benefit 
obligations. The valuation methodology uses a number of market based 
inputs and other financial and demographic assumptions. The significant 
assumptions that we focused our audit on were those with greater 
levels of management judgement and for which variations had the most 
significant impact on the liability. Specifically, these included the 
discount rate, inflation rate and mortality rate.
We had oversight of the audit work performed by our component 
audit team in the UK in relation to the valuation of the defined benefit 
obligation. This work included: 
–
assessing the design and testing the effectiveness of controls in 
place over methodologies and significant assumptions, including in 
the use of management's experts.
–
evaluating the objectivity and competence of management's 
expert involved in the valuation of the principal plan’s defined 
benefit obligation.
–
engaging actuarial experts to understand the judgements made by 
management and their actuarial expert in determining the 
significant assumptions, and comparing these assumptions to 
independently compiled expected ranges based on market 
observable indices and the knowledge and opinions of experts.
–
evaluating and testing the appropriateness of disclosures made in 
the Annual Report.
Overall, we found the valuation of the defined benefit pension 
obligations to be reasonable. 
Observations discussed with the Group Audit Committee
We reported to the GAC our observations covering governance and controls, the assumptions used and the methodologies implemented by 
management in determining the valuation of the defined benefit obligations with a significant focus on discount, inflation and mortality rates.
Investments in subsidiaries (parent company)
Background
Procedures performed
Relevant references in the Annual Report and Accounts 2024: Refer 
to the Group Audit Committee Report, Note 1.2(a): Consolidation and 
related policies and Note 19: Investments in subsidiaries 
Management reviewed the carrying values of the investments in 
subsidiaries to evaluate whether any adjustment was required, 
including additional consideration for impacts resulting from the 
announced organisational changes and strategic refocus. Where 
indicators have been identified management estimated the 
recoverable amount using the higher of value in use ('VIU') or fair 
value less cost to sell.
Management’s assessment resulted in an impairment charge of 
US$11.4bn in relation to the investment in HSBC Overseas Holdings 
(UK) Limited. 
The methodology used to estimate the recoverable amount is 
dependent on various assumptions. These assumptions, which are 
subject to estimation uncertainty, are derived from a combination of 
management's judgement, experts engaged by management and 
market data. The significant assumptions that we focused our audit 
on were those with greater levels of management judgement and for 
which variations had the most significant impact on the recoverable 
amount. Specifically, these included the relevant business plan, long 
term growth rates, discount rates, and the impact of HSBC’s strategy 
on those cash flows.
We assessed the design and tested the effectiveness of controls in 
place over significant assumptions and the model used to determine 
the recoverable amount. We assessed the appropriateness of the 
methodology used, and tested the mathematical accuracy of the 
calculations, to estimate the recoverable amounts.
In respect of the significant assumptions, our testing included the 
following:
–
challenging management's business plan, including the impacts 
resulting from the announced organisational restructure, as well as 
considering the achievement of historic forecasts;
–
obtaining and evaluating evidence relating to significant 
assumptions, from a combination of historical experience and 
external market and other financial information;
–
assessing whether the cash flows included in the model were in 
compliance with the relevant accounting standard;
–
assessing the sensitivity of the recoverable amount to reasonable 
variations in significant assumptions, both individually and in 
aggregate; and
–
determining a reasonable range for the discount rate used within 
the model, with the assistance of our valuation experts, and 
comparing it to the discount rate used by management.
We also evaluated and tested the disclosures made in the Annual 
Report in relation to investment in subsidiaries (Note 19).
Overall, we found management’s impairment assessment in relation 
to the investment in HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited to be 
reasonable.
Observations discussed with the Group Audit Committee
We reported to the GAC our observations covering governance and controls, the assumptions used and the methodologies implemented by 
management in determining the impairment charge for the HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited investment, with a significant focus on 
the relevant business plan for FY25 to FY29, discount rates, long term growth rates, and the impact of HSBC's strategy on those forecast 
cash flows.
Independent auditors’ report to the members of HSBC Holdings plc
334
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

How we tailored the audit scope 
We tailored the scope of our audit to ensure that we performed enough work to be able to give an opinion on the financial statements as a 
whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and the parent company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in 
which they operate. 
A focus on risk factors
The risks that HSBC faces are diverse, with the interdependencies between them being numerous and complex. In performing our risk 
assessment we engaged with a number of stakeholders to ensure we appropriately understood and considered these risks and their 
interrelationships. This included stakeholders within HSBC and our own experts within PwC. This engagement covered external factors across 
the geopolitical, macroeconomic, regulatory and accounting landscape, and the impact of climate risk. It also covered the strategy and 
transformation-driven internal environment at HSBC, with particular attention to the announced Group reorganisation. The impact of this 
reorganisation on financial reporting will primarily be in later reporting periods. 
Scoping 
The risks of material misstatement can be reduced to an acceptable level by testing the entities that are significant due to their size and those 
that drive particular significant risks identified as part of our risk assessment. We continually assessed risks and changed the scope of our audit 
where necessary. Our risk assessment and scoping identified certain entities (collectively the 'Significant Components') for which we obtained 
audit opinions.
Full scope 
audit opinion
Audit opinions 
over specific 
balances
HSBC Holdings plc*
u
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited**
u
HSBC Bank plc**
u
HSBC UK Bank plc*
u
HSBC North America Holdings Inc**
u
HSBC Mexico S.A.*
u
* Opinion for the company financial position and performance.
** Opinion for the consolidated financial position and performance.
We instructed other PwC network firms to perform the audits of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, HSBC North 
America Holdings Inc and HSBC Mexico S.A.. The audits for HSBC Bank plc and HSBC UK Bank plc were performed by PwC teams in the UK, 
who themselves then instructed other PwC network firms to perform work in certain areas. 
We also performed audit work over centralised functions supporting specific balances in other components. These components are HSBC Global 
Services (UK) Limited, HSBC Group Management Services Limited, and HSBC Global Services (HK) Limited. This work was performed by PwC teams 
in the UK.
Significant Components audit approach 
We instructed the component auditors reporting to us on the Significant Components to work to assigned materiality levels reflecting the size 
of the operations they audited. Certain Significant Component auditors performed their work to a local statutory audit materiality that was a 
lower level than our allocated Group materiality. 
We designed global audit approaches for the products and services that substantially make up HSBC's global businesses, such as lending, 
deposits and derivatives. These approaches were provided to the engagement partners and teams performing audit testing for the Significant 
Components. 
We were in active dialogue throughout the year with the component auditors of the Significant Components, including directing how they 
planned and performed their work. Senior members of our team undertook at least one in-person site visit where a full scope audit was 
requested and we had oversight over certain areas of audit work performed. We attended Audit Committee meetings for some of the 
Significant Components. We also attended meetings with management for each of these Significant Components at the year end.
In planning and executing our oversight plan, we considered where reliance was placed on PwC network firms to perform a full scope audit. 
Given the relative financial significance of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited to the Group, we concluded this 
component required a full scope audit. As a result, we placed specific focus on the direction, supervision and review of the work performed by 
our teams in Hong Kong and China. The frequency of dialogue with these teams was substantial throughout all stages of our audit, we also; 
performed additional site visits with component auditors and management, held workshops in several areas where their work supported the 
Group audit and increased the nature and extent of review over the audit work performed by these teams.
Overall coverage
The components where 
we performed audit procedures 
covered approximately:
Net operating income
Total assets
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
335
72%
82%
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Group-wide audit approach 
HSBC has entity level controls that have a pervasive influence across the Group, as well as other global and regional governance and controls 
over aspects of financial reporting, such as those operated by the Global Risk function for expected credit losses. A significant amount of IT and 
operational processes and controls relevant to financial reporting are undertaken in operations centres run by Digital Business Services ('DBS'). 
Whilst these operations centres are not separate components, the IT and operational processes and controls are relevant to the financial 
information of the Components. Financial reporting processes and controls are also performed centrally in HSBC's Group Finance function and 
finance operation centres ('Finance Operations'), including the impairment assessment of goodwill and intangible assets, held for sale 
classifications and the consolidation of the Group's results, the preparation of financial statements, and management's oversight controls 
relevant to the Group's financial reporting. 
Group-wide processes or processes in DBS and Finance Operations are subject to specified audit procedures or an audit over specific financial 
statement line items. For these areas, we either performed audit work ourselves, or directed and provided oversight of the audit work 
performed by PwC teams in the UK, Poland, China, Malaysia, India, France, Hong Kong and the Philippines. This audit work, together with 
analytical review procedures and assessing the outcome of local external audits, also addressed the risk of material misstatement for balances 
in entities that were not part of a Significant Component. 
Materiality
The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. We set certain quantitative thresholds for materiality. These, together 
with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures on the 
individual financial statement line items and disclosures and in evaluating the effect of misstatements, both individually and in aggregate on the 
financial statements as a whole.
Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows:
Group
Parent Company
Overall materiality $1.5bn
(FY23 $1.6bn)
$1.4bn
(FY23 $1.5bn)
How we 
determined it
5%
of profit before tax adjusted for notable items
0.75%
of total assets then capped to 95% of the group materiality.
Rationale for 
benchmark applied
We believe a benchmark based on 5% of profit before tax 
excluding notable items is an appropriate quantitative indicator of 
materiality, although certain items could also be material for 
qualitative reasons. This benchmark is consistent with our 
approach for listed entities.
A benchmark of total assets has been used, as the parent 
company's primary purpose is to act as a holding parent company 
with investments in the Group's subsidiaries, not to generate 
operating profits and therefore a profit-based measure is not 
relevant.
Performance 
materiality
$1.1bn
(FY23 $1.2bn)
$1.1bn
(FY23 $1.1bn)
How we 
determined it
75%
of overall materiality
75%
of overall materiality
Level above which 
we report to the 
Group Audit 
Committee
$75m
(FY23 $80m)
$75m
(FY23 $80m)
We agreed we would also report misstatements below those amounts that, in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons.
 
For each Significant Component in the scope of our Group audit, we allocated a materiality that is less than our overall Group materiality. The 
range of materiality allocated across components was between $0.1bn and $1.4bn.
We use performance materiality to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that the aggregate of uncorrected and undetected 
misstatements exceeds overall materiality. Specifically, we use performance materiality in determining the scope of our audit and the nature 
and extent of our testing of account balances, classes of transactions and disclosures, for example in determining sample sizes. 
In determining the performance materiality, we considered a number of factors – the history of misstatements, risk assessment and 
aggregation risk and the effectiveness of controls – and concluded that an amount at the upper end of our normal range was appropriate.
Independent auditors’ report to the members of HSBC Holdings plc
336
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The impact of climate risk on our audit
In considering the impact of climate risk on our audit, we:
Made enquiries of management to understand the extent of the potential impact of climate risk on the financial statements and we 
remained alert when performing our audit procedures for any indicators of the impact of climate risk.
Evaluated and challenged management's assessment of the impact of climate risk, set out on page 43, which includes the potential 
impact on ECL, classification and measurement of financial instruments, goodwill and other intangible assets, and assumptions 
used in making the long-term viability statement and going concern assumption.
Read the disclosures in relation to climate risk made in the other information within the Annual Report to ascertain whether the 
disclosures are materially consistent with the financial statements and our knowledge from our audit. Our responsibility over other 
information is further described in the Reporting on other information section of our report.
Our procedures did not identify any material incremental adjustments needed to capture climate impacts on the Group and parent company 
financial statements. 
 
Our ability to detect irregularities, including fraud, and our response
Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line with our responsibilities, 
outlined below, to detect material misstatements in respect of irregularities, including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of 
detecting irregularities, including fraud, is detailed below.
Based on our understanding of the Group and industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance with laws and regulations 
related to breaches of financial crime laws and regulations and regulatory compliance, including regulatory reporting requirements and conduct 
of business, and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a material effect on the financial statements. We also 
considered those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the financial statements such as the Companies Act 2006 and relevant tax 
legislation. We evaluated management’s incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements (including the risk 
of override of controls) and determined that the principal risks were related to posting inappropriate journal entries in relation to cost targets, 
and management bias in accounting estimates, particularly those related to the valuation of certain financial instruments. The Group 
engagement team shared this risk assessment with the component auditors so that they could include appropriate audit procedures in 
response to such risks in their work.
Audit procedures performed by the Group engagement team and/or component auditors included:
Review of correspondence with and reports from regulators, including the Prudential Regulation Authority ('PRA') and Financial 
Conduct Authority ('FCA').
Review of reporting to the GAC and the Group Risk Committee in respect of compliance and legal matters.
Enquiry of management and those charged with governance, and review of internal audit reports insofar as they related to the 
financial statements.
Obtaining legal confirmations from legal advisors relating to material litigation and compliance matters.
Assessing matters reported on the Group's whistleblowing programmes and the results of management's investigation of such 
matters, insofar as they related to the financial statements.
Challenging assumptions and judgements made by management in its significant accounting estimates, in particular in relation to 
the determination of the valuation of certain financial instruments, ECL, and the impairment assessment of investment in 
subsidiaries.
Obtaining confirmations from third parties to confirm the existence of a sample of transactions and balances.
Identifying and testing journal entries, including those posted with certain descriptions, posted to certain account combinations, or 
posted by unexpected users.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above. We are less likely to become aware of instances of non-compliance with 
laws and regulations that are not closely related to events and transactions reflected in the financial statements. Also, the risk of not detecting 
a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate 
concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.
Our audit testing might include testing complete populations of certain transactions and balances, possibly using data auditing techniques. 
However, it typically involves selecting a limited number of items for testing, rather than testing complete populations. We will often seek to 
target particular items for testing based on their size or risk characteristics. In other cases, we will use audit sampling to enable us to draw a 
conclusion about the population from which the sample is selected.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
337
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Conclusions relating to going concern
Our evaluation of the directors’ assessment of the Group's and 
the parent company’s ability to continue to adopt the going 
concern basis of accounting included:
Performing a risk assessment to identify factors that 
could impact the going concern basis of accounting, 
including both internal risks (e.g. strategy execution) and 
external risks (e.g. macroeconomic conditions).
Understanding and evaluating the Group's financial 
forecasts.
Understanding and evaluating the Group's stress testing 
of liquidity and regulatory capital, including the severity of 
the stress scenarios that were used.
Understanding and evaluating credit rating agency ratings 
and actions.
Reading and evaluating the adequacy of the disclosures 
made in the financial statements in relation to going 
concern.
Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any 
material uncertainties relating to events or conditions that, individually 
or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the Group's and the 
parent company’s ability to continue as a going concern for a period 
of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are 
authorised for issue.
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the 
directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the 
preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be 
predicted, this conclusion is not a guarantee as to the Group's and 
the parent company's ability to continue as a going concern.
In relation to the directors’ reporting on how they have applied the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, we have nothing material to add or 
draw attention to in relation to the directors’ statement in the 
financial statements about whether the directors considered it 
appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting.
Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with 
respect to going concern are described in the relevant sections of this 
report.
Reporting on other information
The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual 
Report other than the financial statements and our auditors’ report 
thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information. Our 
opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other 
information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, 
except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any 
form of assurance thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our 
responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, 
consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with 
the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or 
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify an 
apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are 
required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a 
material misstatement of the financial statements or a material 
misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work we 
have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement 
of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have 
nothing to report based on these responsibilities.
Where PwC has provided independent assurance over other parts of 
the annual report (specifically, certain ESG data), that is the subject of 
a separate assurance report and does not fall within the scope of this 
audit report. 
With respect to the Strategic report and Report of the Directors, we 
also considered whether the disclosures required by the UK 
Companies Act 2006 have been included. Based on our work 
undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 
requires us also to report certain opinions and matters as described 
below.
Strategic report and Report of the 
Directors
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the 
audit, the information given in the Strategic report and Report of the 
Directors for the year ended 31 December 2024 is consistent with 
the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with 
applicable legal requirements.
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and parent 
company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, 
we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic report 
and Report of the Directors.
Directors' Remuneration
In our opinion, the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be 
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the 
Companies Act 2006.
Independent auditors’ report to the members of HSBC Holdings plc
338
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Corporate governance statement
The Listing Rules require us to review the directors’ statements in 
relation to going concern, longer-term viability and that part of the 
corporate governance statement relating to the parent company’s 
compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code specified for our review. Our additional responsibilities with 
respect to the corporate governance statement as other information 
are described in the Reporting on other information section of this 
report.
Based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have 
concluded that each of the following elements of the corporate 
governance statement is materially consistent with the financial 
statements and our knowledge obtained during the audit, and we 
have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to:
–
The directors’ confirmation that they have carried out a robust 
assessment of the emerging and principal risks;
–
The disclosures in the Annual Report that describe those principal 
risks, what procedures are in place to identify emerging risks and 
an explanation of how these are being managed or mitigated;
–
The directors’ statement in the financial statements about 
whether they considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern 
basis of accounting in preparing them, and their identification of 
any material uncertainties to the Group’s and parent company’s 
ability to continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months 
from the date of approval of the financial statements;
–
The directors’ explanation as to their assessment of the Group's 
and parent company’s prospects, the period this assessment 
covers and why the period is appropriate; and
–
The directors’ statement as to whether they have a reasonable 
expectation that the parent company will be able to continue in 
operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of 
its assessment, including any related disclosures drawing 
attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions.
Our review of the directors’ statement regarding the longer-term 
viability of the Group and parent company was substantially less in 
scope than an audit and only consisted of making inquiries and 
considering the directors’ process supporting their statement; 
checking that the statement is in alignment with the relevant 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code; and considering 
whether the statement is consistent with the financial statements 
and our knowledge and understanding of the Group and parent 
company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit.
In addition, based on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we 
have concluded that each of the following elements of the corporate 
governance statement is materially consistent with the financial 
statements and our knowledge obtained during the audit:
–
The directors’ statement that they consider the Annual Report, 
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and 
provides the information necessary for the members to assess 
the Group’s and parent company's position, performance, 
business model and strategy;
–
The section of the Annual Report that describes the review of 
effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems; 
and
–
The section of the Annual Report describing the work of the GAC.
We have nothing to report in respect of our responsibility to report 
when the directors’ statement relating to the parent company’s 
compliance with the Code does not properly disclose a departure 
from a relevant provision of the Code specified under the Listing 
Rules for review by the auditors.
Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Responsibilities of the Directors for 
the financial statements
As explained more fully in the Directors' responsibility statement, the 
directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial 
statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for 
being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. The directors are 
also responsible for such internal control as they determine is 
necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are 
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for 
assessing the Group’s and the parent company’s ability to continue 
as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going 
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the 
directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent company 
or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit 
of the financial statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the 
financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that 
includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of 
assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in 
accordance with ISAs (UK) and ISAs will always detect a material 
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or 
error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, 
they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic 
decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
A further description of our responsibilities for 
the audit of the financial statements 
(encompassing our responsibilities under ISAs 
and our additional responsibilities under ISAs 
(UK)) is located on the FRC’s website at 
www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This 
description forms part of our auditors’ report.
Use of this report
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for 
the parent company’s members as a body in accordance with 
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other 
purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume 
responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom 
this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where 
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
339
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Other required reporting
Companies Act 2006 exception 
reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in 
our opinion:
–
we have not obtained all the information and explanations we 
require for our audit; or
–
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent 
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been 
received from branches not visited by us; or
–
certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are 
not made; or
–
the parent company financial statements and the part of the 
Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited are not in 
agreement with the accounting records and returns.
We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
Other matter
The company is required by the Financial Conduct Authority 
Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules to include these 
financial statements in an annual financial report prepared under the 
structured digital format required by DTR 4.1.15R - 4.1.18R and filed 
on the National Storage Mechanism of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. This auditors’ report provides no assurance over whether 
the structured digital format annual financial report has been prepared 
in accordance with those requirements.
Matthew Falconer (Senior Statutory Auditor) 
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Chartered 
Accountants and Statutory Auditors London
19 February 2025
Independent auditors’ report to the members of HSBC Holdings plc
340
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Financial statements
Consolidated income statement
for the year ended 31 December 2024
2024
2023
2022
Notes*
$m
$m
$m
Net interest income
 
32,733 
35,796 
30,377 
– interest income1,2
 
108,631 
100,868 
52,826 
– interest expense3
 
(75,898) 
(65,072) 
(22,449) 
Net fee income
2
 
12,301 
11,845 
11,770 
– fee income
 
16,266 
15,616 
15,124 
– fee expense
 
(3,965) 
(3,771) 
(3,354) 
Net income from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value basis4
3
 
21,116 
16,661 
10,278 
Net income/(expense) from assets and liabilities of insurance businesses, including related derivatives, 
measured at fair value through profit or loss
3
 
5,901 
7,887 
(13,831) 
Insurance finance (expense)/income
4
 
(5,978) 
(7,809) 
13,799 
Insurance service result
4
 
1,310 
1,078 
809 
– insurance revenue
 
2,752 
2,259 
1,977 
– insurance service expense
 
(1,442) 
(1,181) 
(1,168) 
Gain on acquisition5
 
— 
1,591 
— 
Gains/(losses) recognised on sale of business operations6
 
(1,752) 
(61) 
(2,678) 
Other operating income/(expense)7
 
223 
(930) 
96 
Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges8
 
65,854 
66,058 
50,620 
Change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges
 
(3,414) 
(3,447) 
(3,584) 
Net operating income
 
62,440 
62,611 
47,036 
Employee compensation and benefits
5
 
(18,465) 
(18,220) 
(18,003) 
General and administrative expenses
 
(10,498) 
(10,383) 
(10,848) 
Depreciation and impairment of property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets9
 
(1,845) 
(1,640) 
(2,149) 
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets
 
(2,235) 
(1,827) 
(1,701) 
Total operating expenses
 
(33,043) 
(32,070) 
(32,701) 
Operating profit
 
29,397 
30,541 
14,335 
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures
18
 
2,912 
2,807 
2,723 
Impairment of interest in associate
18
 
— 
(3,000) 
— 
Profit before tax
 
32,309 
30,348 
17,058 
Tax expense
7
 
(7,310) 
(5,789) 
(809) 
Profit for the year
 
24,999 
24,559 
16,249 
Attributable to:
– ordinary shareholders of the parent company
 
22,917 
22,432 
14,346 
– preference shareholders of the parent company
 
— 
— 
— 
– other equity holders
 
1,062 
1,101 
1,213 
– non-controlling interests
 
1,020 
1,026 
690 
Profit for the year
 
24,999 
24,559 
16,249 
$
$
$
Basic earnings per ordinary share
9
 
1.25 
1.15 
0.72 
Diluted earnings per ordinary share
9
 
1.24 
1.14 
0.72 
 
For Notes on the financial statements, see page 353.
1 Interest income includes $93,388m (2023: $88,657m; 2022: $45,994m) of interest recognised on financial assets measured at amortised cost and $15,273m 
(2023: $12,134m; 2022: $6,293m) of interest recognised on financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. It also includes a net 
$237m loss related to the early redemption of legacy securities.
2 Interest income is calculated using the effective interest method and comprises interest recognised on financial assets measured at either amortised cost or fair 
value through other comprehensive income. 
3 Interest expense includes $72,594m (2023: $62,095m; 2022: $20,798m) of interest on financial instruments, excluding interest on debt instruments issued by 
HSBC for funding purposes that are designated under the fair value option to reduce an accounting mismatch and on derivatives managed in conjunction with 
those debt instruments included in interest expense. 
4
Includes a $255m gain (2023: $315m loss) on the foreign exchange hedging of the proceeds from the sale of our banking business in Canada and a $114m 
mark-to-market gain (2023:nil) on interest rate hedging of the portfolio of retained loans post sale of our retail banking business in France.
5
Gain recognised in respect of the acquisition of SVB UK.
6
This line item has been updated to include amounts from Other operating income relating to all sales of business operations; in the 2023 Annual Report and Accounts, 
this line item only reflected the disposal of our France retail banking business. The amount in 2024 includes a $1.0bn loss on disposal and a $5.2bn loss on the recycling 
in foreign currency translation reserve losses and other reserves arising on sale of our business in Argentina. This was partly offset by a gain of $4.6bn, inclusive of the 
recycling of $0.6bn in foreign currency translation reserve losses and $0.4bn of other reserves losses but excluding the $255m gain on the foreign exchange hedging 
(see footnote 4 above) on the sale of our banking business in Canada. The amount in 2023 primarily reflected losses due to restrictions impacting the recoverability of 
assets in Russia, partly offset by a gain on sale of our retail banking operations in France. The amount in 2022 included losses from classifying businesses as held for 
sale as part of a broader restructuring of our European business.
7
Other operating income/(expense) includes a loss on net monetary positions of $1,187m (2023: $1,667m; 2022: $678m) as a result of applying IAS 29 ‘Financial 
Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies’. 
8
Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges also referred to as revenue. 
9
Includes depreciation of the right-of-use assets of $711m (2023: $663m; 2022: $717m). 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
341
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2024
2024
2023
2022
$m
$m
$m
Profit for the year
 
24,999 
24,559 
16,249 
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
Items that will be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss when specific conditions are met:
Debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income
 
163 
2,599 
(7,232) 
– fair value gains/(losses)
 
41 
2,381 
(9,618) 
– fair value losses/(gains) transferred to the income statement on disposal
 
69 
905 
(18) 
– expected credit (recoveries)/losses recognised in the income statement
 
(6) 
59 
56 
– disposal of subsidiary
 
85 
— 
— 
– income taxes
 
(26) 
(746) 
2,348 
Cash flow hedges
 
(52) 
2,953 
(3,655) 
– fair value gains/(losses)
 
(282) 
2,534 
(4,207) 
– fair value (gains)/losses reclassified to the income statement
 
(135) 
1,463 
(758) 
– disposal of subsidiary
 
262 
— 
— 
– income taxes
 
103 
(1,044) 
1,310 
Share of other comprehensive income/(expense) of associates and joint ventures 
 
462 
47 
(367) 
– share for the year
 
462 
47 
(367) 
Net finance income/(expenses) from insurance contracts
 
(142) 
(364) 
1,775 
– before income taxes
 
(191) 
(491) 
2,393 
– income taxes
 
49 
127 
(618) 
Exchange differences
 
833 
(204) 
(9,918) 
– foreign exchange losses reclassified to the income statement on disposal of a foreign operation
 
5,816 
— 
— 
– other exchange differences
 
(4,983) 
(204) 
(9,918) 
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Fair value gains on property revaluation
 
5 
1 
280 
Remeasurement of defined benefit asset/(liability)
 
(228) 
(314) 
(1,031) 
– before income taxes
 
(342) 
(413) 
(1,723) 
– income taxes
 
114 
99 
692 
Changes in fair value of financial liabilities designated at fair value upon initial recognition arising from changes in 
own credit risk
 
(439) 
(1,219) 
1,922 
– before income taxes
 
(579) 
(1,617) 
2,573 
– income taxes
 
140 
398 
(651) 
Equity instruments designated at fair value through other comprehensive income
 
99 
(120) 
107 
– fair value gains/(losses)
 
141 
(120) 
107 
– income taxes
 
(42) 
— 
— 
Effects of hyperinflation
 
1,239 
1,604 
877 
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year, net of tax
 
1,940 
4,983 
(17,242) 
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year
 
26,939 
29,542 
(993) 
Attributable to:
– ordinary shareholders of the parent company
 
24,833 
27,397 
(2,810) 
– other equity holders
 
1,062 
1,101 
1,213 
– non-controlling interests 
 
1,044 
1,044 
604 
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year
 
26,939 
29,542 
(993) 
Financial statements
342
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Consolidated balance sheet
at 31 December 2024
 
At
31 Dec 2024
31 Dec 2023
Notes*
$m
$m
Assets
Cash and balances at central banks
 
267,674 
285,868 
Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness
 
42,293 
42,024 
Trading assets
11
 
314,842 
289,159 
Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss
14
 
115,769 
110,643 
Derivatives
15
 
268,637 
229,714 
Loans and advances to banks
 
102,039 
112,902 
Loans and advances to customers
 
930,658 
938,535 
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
 
252,549 
252,217 
Financial investments
16
 
493,166 
442,763 
Assets held for sale
23
 
27,234 
114,134 
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets1
22
 
152,740 
171,597 
Current tax assets
 
1,313 
1,536 
Interests in associates and joint ventures
18
 
28,909 
27,344 
Goodwill and intangible assets
21
 
12,384 
12,487 
Deferred tax assets
7
 
6,841 
7,754 
Total assets
 
3,017,048 
3,038,677 
Liabilities
Hong Kong currency notes in circulation
 
42,293 
42,024 
Deposits by banks
 
73,997 
73,163 
Customer accounts
 
1,654,955 
1,611,647 
Repurchase agreements – non-trading
 
180,880 
172,100 
Trading liabilities
24
 
65,982 
73,150 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value
25
 
138,727 
141,426 
Derivatives
15
 
264,448 
234,772 
Debt securities in issue
26
 
105,785 
93,917 
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale
23
 
29,011 
108,406 
Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities1
27
 
130,340 
143,901 
Current tax liabilities
 
1,729 
2,777 
Insurance contract liabilities
4
 
107,629 
120,851 
Provisions
28
 
1,724 
1,741 
Deferred tax liabilities
7
 
1,317 
1,238 
Subordinated liabilities
29
 
25,958 
24,954 
Total liabilities
 
2,824,775 
2,846,067 
Equity
Called up share capital
32
 
8,973 
9,631 
Share premium account
32
 
14,810 
14,738 
Other equity instruments
 
19,070 
17,719 
Other reserves
 
(10,282) 
(8,907) 
Retained earnings
 
152,402 
152,148 
Total shareholders’ equity
 
184,973 
185,329 
Non-controlling interests
19
 
7,300 
7,281 
Total equity
 
192,273 
192,610 
Total liabilities and equity
 
3,017,048 
3,038,677 
* For Notes on the financial statements, see page 353.
1 In 2023 ‘Items in the course of collection from other banks’ ($6.3bn) were presented on the face of the balance sheet but are now reported within 
‘Prepayments, accrued income and other assets’ in the Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Similarly, ‘Items in the course of transmission to other 
banks’ ($7.3bn) are now presented within ‘Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities’.
The accompanying notes on pages 353 to 438 and the audited sections in the Risk review on pages 126 to 235 and ‘Directors’ remuneration 
report’ on pages 279 to 317 form an integral part of these financial statements. 
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 19 February 2025 and signed on its behalf by:
Sir Mark E Tucker
Pam Kaur
Group Chairman
Group Chief Financial Officer
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
343
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

for the year ended 31 December 2024
Other reserves
Called up
share 
capital
and share
premium
Other
equity
instruments
Financial
assets at
FVOCI
reserve
Cash
flow
hedging
reserve
Foreign
exchange
reserve
Merger
and 
other
reserves
1,2
Insurance
finance
reserve3
Retained 
earnings
1,4
Total
shareholders’
equity
Noncontrolling
interests
Total
equity
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
At 1 Jan 2024
 
24,369 17,719 
(3,507) 
(1,033) 
(33,753) 
28,601 
785 
152,148 185,329 
7,281 
192,610 
Profit for the year
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
23,979 
23,979 
1,020 24,999 
Other comprehensive income 
(net of tax)
 
— 
— 
259 
(46) 
863 
5 
(183) 
1,018 
1,916 
24 1,940 
– debt instruments at fair value 
through other 
comprehensive income
 
— 
— 
62 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
62 
16 
78 
– equity instruments 
designated at fair value 
through other 
comprehensive income
 
— 
— 
75 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
75 
24 
99 
– cash flow hedges
 
— 
— 
— 
(312) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(312) 
(2) 
(314) 
– changes in fair value of 
financial liabilities designated 
at fair value upon initial 
recognition arising from 
changes in own credit risk
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(439) 
(439) 
— 
(439) 
– property revaluation
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
5 
— 
— 
5 
— 
5 
– remeasurement of defined 
benefit asset/liability
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(244) 
(244) 
16 
(228) 
– share of other 
comprehensive income of 
associates and joint ventures
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
462 
462 
— 
462 
– effects of hyperinflation
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
1,239 
1,239 
— 1,239 
– foreign exchange reclassified 
to income statement on 
disposal of a foreign 
operation5
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
5,816 
— 
— 
— 
5,816 
— 5,816 
– other reserves reclassified to 
income statement on 
disposal of a foreign 
operation
 
— 
— 
85 
262 
— 
— 
— 
— 
347 
— 
347 
– insurance finance income/
(expense) recognised in 
other comprehensive income
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(142) 
— 
(142) 
— 
(142) 
– exchange differences
 
— 
— 
37 
4 
(4,953) 
— 
(41) 
— 
(4,953) 
(30) (4,983) 
Total comprehensive income 
for the year
 
— 
— 
259 
(46) 
863 
5 
(183) 
24,997 
25,895 
1,044 26,939 
Shares issued under employee 
remuneration and share plans
 
77 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(77) 
— 
— 
— 
Capital securities issued6
 
— 3,601 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
3,601 
— 3,601 
Dividends to shareholders
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(16,410) (16,410) 
(690) 
(17,100) 
Redemption of securities7
 
— (2,250) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(2,250) 
— (2,250) 
Transfers8
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(2,945) 
— 
2,945 
— 
— 
— 
Cost of share-based payment 
arrangements
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
529 
529 
— 
529 
Share buy-back9
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(11,043) (11,043) 
— 
(11,043) 
Cancellation of shares
 
(663) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
663 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Other movements
 
— 
— 
2 
— 
3 
4 
— 
(687) 
(678) 
(335) (1,013) 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
23,783 19,070 
(3,246) 
(1,079) 
(32,887) 
26,328 
602 
152,402 184,973 
7,300 
192,273 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Financial statements
344
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

for the year ended 31 December 2023
Other reserves
Called up 
share 
capital and 
share 
premium
Other
equity
instruments
Financial 
assets at 
FVOCI 
reserve
Cash 
flow
hedging
reserve
Foreign
exchange
reserve
Merger 
and 
other 
reserves
1,2
Insurance
finance
reserve3
Retained
earnings
1,4
Total
shareholders’
equity
Noncontrolling
interests
Total
equity
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
At 1 Jan 2023
 
24,811 19,746 
(7,038) 
(3,808) 
(32,575) 
33,209 
1,079 
142,409 177,833 
7,364 
185,197 
Profit for the year
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
23,533 
23,533 
1,026 24,559 
Other comprehensive income 
(net of tax)
 
— 
— 
2,402 
3,030 
(211) 
1 
(371) 
114 
4,965 
18 4,983 
– debt instruments at fair value 
through other 
comprehensive income
 
— 
— 
2,574 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
2,574 
25 2,599 
– equity instruments 
designated at fair value 
through other 
comprehensive income
 
— 
— 
(93) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(93) 
(27) 
(120) 
– cash flow hedges
 
— 
— 
— 
2,919 
— 
— 
— 
— 
2,919 
34 2,953 
– changes in fair value of 
financial liabilities designated 
at fair value upon initial 
recognition arising from 
changes in own credit risk
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(1,220) 
(1,220) 
1 (1,219) 
– property revaluation
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
1 
— 
— 
1 
— 
1 
– remeasurement of defined 
benefit asset/liability
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(317) 
(317) 
3 
(314) 
– share of other 
comprehensive income of 
associates and joint ventures
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
 
47 
47 
— 
47 
– effects of hyperinflation
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
1,604 
1,604 
— 1,604 
– insurance finance income/
(expense) recognised in 
other comprehensive income
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(364) 
— 
(364) 
— 
(364) 
– exchange differences
 
— 
— 
(79) 
111 
(211) 
— 
(7) 
— 
(186) 
(18) 
(204) 
Total comprehensive income 
for the year
 
— 
— 
2,402 
3,030 
(211) 
1 
(371) 
23,647 
28,498 
1,044 29,542 
Shares issued under employee 
remuneration and share plans
 
79 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(79) 
— 
— 
— 
Capital securities issued
 
— 1,996 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
1,996 
— 1,996 
Dividends to shareholders
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(11,593) (11,593) 
(603) 
(12,196) 
Redemption of securities
 
— (4,023) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
20 
(4,003) 
— (4,003) 
Transfers8
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(5,130) 
— 
5,130 
— 
— 
— 
Cost of share-based payment 
arrangements
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
482 
482 
— 
482 
Share buy-back
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(7,025) 
(7,025) 
— (7,025) 
Cancellation of shares
 
(521) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
521 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Other movements
 
— 
— 
1,129 
(255) 
(967) 
— 
77 
(843) 
(859) 
(524) (1,383) 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
24,369 17,719 
(3,507) 
(1,033) 
(33,753) 
28,601 
785 
152,148 185,329 
7,281 
192,610 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity (continued)
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
345
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

for the year ended 31 December 2022
Other reserves
Called up
share
capital and
share
premium
Other
equity
instruments
Financial
assets at
FVOCI
reserve
Cash
flow
hedging
reserve
Foreign
exchange
reserve
Merger
and 
other
reserves
1,2
Insurance
finance
reserve3
Retained
earnings
1,4
Total
shareholders’
equity
Noncontrolling
interests
Total
equity
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
At 1 Jan 2022
 
24,918 22,414 
49 
(197) 
(22,769) 
30,060 
(696) 
135,236 189,015 
7,303 
196,318 
Profit for the year
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
15,559 
15,559 
690 16,249 
Other comprehensive income 
(net of tax)
 
— 
— 
(7,089) 
(3,613) 
(9,806) 
174 
1,775 
1,403 (17,156) 
(86) 
(17,242) 
– debt instruments at fair value 
through other 
comprehensive income
 
— 
— 
(7,181) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(7,181) 
(51) (7,232) 
– equity instruments 
designated at fair value 
through other 
comprehensive income
 
— 
— 
92 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
92 
15 
107 
– cash flow hedges
 
— 
— 
— 
(3,613) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(3,613) 
(42) (3,655) 
– changes in fair value of 
financial liabilities designated 
at fair value upon initial 
recognition arising from 
changes in own credit risk
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
1,922 
1,922 
— 1,922 
– property revaluation
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
174 
— 
— 
174 
106 
280 
– remeasurement of defined 
benefit asset/liability
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(1,029) 
(1,029) 
(2) (1,031) 
– share of other 
comprehensive income of 
associates and joint ventures
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(367) 
(367) 
— 
(367) 
– effects of hyperinflation
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
877 
877 
— 
877 
– insurance finance income/ 
(expense) recognised in 
other comprehensive income
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
1,775 
— 
1,775 
— 1,775 
– exchange differences
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(9,806) 
— 
— 
— 
(9,806) 
(112) (9,918) 
Total comprehensive income 
for the year
 
— 
— 
(7,089) 
(3,613) 
(9,806) 
174 
1,775 
16,962 
(1,597) 
604 
(993) 
Shares issued under employee 
remuneration and share plans
 
67 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(67) 
— 
— 
— 
Dividends to shareholders
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(6,544) 
(6,544) 
(426) (6,970) 
Redemption of securities
 
— (2,668) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
402 
(2,266) 
— (2,266) 
Transfers8
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
2,499 
— 
(2,499) 
— 
— 
— 
Cost of share-based payment 
arrangements
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
400 
400 
— 
400 
Share buy-back
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(1,000) 
(1,000) 
— (1,000) 
Cancellation of shares
 
(174) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
174 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Other movements
 
— 
— 
2 
2 
— 
302 
— 
(481) 
(175) 
(117) 
(292) 
At 31 Dec 2022
 
24,811 19,746 
(7,038) 
(3,808) 
(32,575) 
33,209 
1,079 
142,409 177,833 
7,364 
185,197 
Consolidated statement of changes in equity (continued)
1
Cumulative goodwill amounting to $5,138m was charged against reserves in respect of acquisitions of subsidiaries prior to 1 January 1998, including $3,469m 
charged against the merger reserve arising on the acquisition of HSBC Bank plc. The balance of $1,669m was charged against retained earnings.
2 Statutory share premium relief under section 131 of the Companies Act 1985 was taken in respect of the acquisition of HSBC Bank plc in 1992, 
HSBC Continental Europe in 2000 and HSBC Finance Corporation in 2003, and the shares issued were recorded at their nominal value only. In HSBC’s 
consolidated financial statements, the fair value differences of $8,290m in respect of HSBC Continental Europe and $12,768m in respect of HSBC Finance 
Corporation were recognised in the merger reserve. The merger reserve created on the acquisition of HSBC Finance Corporation subsequently became 
attached to HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited, following a number of intra-Group reorganisations, and has since been transferred to retained earnings as 
part of the impairment recognised in respect of HSBC Overseas Holding (UK) Limited. During 2009, pursuant to section 131 of the Companies Act 1985, 
statutory share premium relief was taken in respect of the rights issue and $15,796m was recognised in the merger reserve. 
3 The insurance finance reserve reflects the impact of the adoption of the other comprehensive income option for our insurance business in France. Underlying 
assets supporting these contracts are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income. Under this option, only the amount that matches income or 
expenses recognised in profit or loss on underlying items is included in finance income or expenses, resulting in the elimination of income statement accounting 
mismatches. The remaining amount of finance income or expenses for these insurance contracts is recognised in other comprehensive income (‘OCI’). 
4 At 31 December 2024, retained earnings included 28,744,609 own shares held. These include own shares held within HSBC’s insurance business’s retirement 
funds for the benefit of policyholders or beneficiaries within employee trusts for the settlement of shares expected to be delivered under employee share 
schemes or bonus plans, and the market-making activities in Markets and Securities Services. 
5 At 31 December 2024, accumulated foreign currency translation reserve losses of $5,816m were recycled to the income statement, including $5,166m upon 
completion of the sale of our business in Argentina and $564m upon completion of the sale of our banking business in Canada. 
6 HSBC Holdings issued SGD1,500m 5.250% contingent convertible securities in June 2024, and a further $1,350m 6.875% and $1,150m 6.950% contingent 
convertible securities in September 2024. All instruments were recorded net of issuance costs. 
7
In September 2024, HSBC Holdings redeemed its $2,250m 6.375% contingent convertible securities. 
8 At 31 December 2024, an impairment of $11,442m (2023: $5,512m) of HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited was recognised, resulting in a permitted transfer 
of $2,945m (2023: $5,130m) from the remaining historical merger reserve to retained earnings, and a realisation of nil share-based payment reserve (2023: 
$382m) within retained earnings. In 2022, a part-reversal of the impairment resulted in a transfer from retained earnings back to the merger reserve of $2,499m.
9
HSBC Holdings announced the following share buy-backs during the year: a share buy-back of up to $2.0bn in February 2024, which was completed in April 
2024; a share buy-back of up to $3.0bn in April 2024, which was completed in July 2024; a share buy-back of up to $3.0bn in July 2024, which was completed in 
October 2024; and a share buy-back of up to $3.0bn in October 2024, which was completed in February 2025. 
Financial statements
346
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Profit before tax
 
32,309 
30,348 
17,058 
Adjustments for non-cash items:
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment
 
4,080 
3,466 
3,850 
Net loss from investing activities
 
180 
1,213 
11 
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures
 
(2,912) 
(2,807) 
(2,723) 
Impairment of interest in associate
 
— 
3,000 
— 
(Gain)/loss on acquisition/disposal of subsidiaries, businesses, associates and joint ventures
 
1,704 
(1,775) 
2,554 
Change in expected credit losses gross of recoveries and other credit impairment charges
 
3,674 
3,717 
3,898 
Provisions including pensions
 
299 
266 
638 
Share-based payment expense
 
529 
482 
400 
Other non-cash items included in profit before tax
 
(5,290) 
(4,299) 
(774) 
Elimination of exchange differences1
 
26,734 
(10,678) 
48,718 
Changes in operating assets and liabilities
Change in net trading securities and derivatives
 
(41,385) 
(63,247) 
20,166 
Change in loans and advances to banks and customers
 
7,275 
(14,145) 
31,649 
Change in reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
 
(4,227) 
(2,095) 
(23,405) 
Change in financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value
 
(20,662) 
(9,994) 
14,164 
Change in other assets2
 
7,685 
(10,254) 
(12,858) 
Change in deposits by banks and customer accounts
 
44,237 
45,021 
(91,194) 
Change in repurchase agreements – non-trading
 
8,700 
43,366 
4,344 
Change in debt securities in issue
 
11,942 
11,945 
12,518 
Change in financial liabilities designated at fair value
 
(2,248) 
10,097 
(13,654) 
Change in other liabilities
 
(1,603) 
8,742 
6,021 
Dividends received from associates
 
1,062 
1,067 
944 
Contributions paid to defined benefit plans
 
(167) 
(208) 
(194) 
Tax paid
 
(6,611) 
(4,117) 
(2,776) 
Net cash from operating activities
 
65,305 
39,111 
19,355 
Purchase of financial investments2
 
(523,454) 
(563,561) 
(511,097) 
Proceeds from the sale and maturity of financial investments2
 
453,502 
504,174 
492,624 
Net cash flows from the purchase and sale of property, plant and equipment
 
(1,344) 
(1,145) 
(1,284) 
Net cash flows from disposal of loan portfolio and customer accounts
 
— 
623 
(3,530) 
Net investment in intangible assets
 
(2,542) 
(2,550) 
(3,125) 
Net cash inflow on acquisition/disposal of subsidiaries, businesses, associates and joint ventures3
 
9,891 
1,239 
— 
Net cash outflow on acquisition/disposal of subsidiaries, businesses, associates and joint ventures4
 
(12,617) 
(1,692) 
(989) 
Net cash from investing activities
 
(76,564) 
(62,912) 
(27,401) 
Issue of ordinary share capital and other equity instruments
 
3,602 
1,996 
— 
Cancellation of shares
 
(11,348) 
(5,812) 
(2,285) 
Net purchases of own shares for market-making and investment purposes
 
(541) 
(614) 
(91) 
Net cash flow from change in stake of subsidiaries
 
— 
(19) 
(197) 
Redemption of preference shares and other equity instruments
 
(3,433) 
(4,003) 
(2,266) 
Subordinated loan capital issued
 
4,361 
5,237 
7,300 
Subordinated loan capital repaid5
 
(2,000) 
(2,147) 
(1,777) 
Dividends paid to shareholders of the parent company and non-controlling interests
 
(17,100) 
(12,196) 
(6,970) 
Net cash from financing activities
 
(26,459) 
(17,558) 
(6,286) 
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents
 
(37,718) 
(41,359) 
(14,332) 
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 Jan
 
490,933 
521,671 
574,032 
Exchange differences in respect of cash and cash equivalents
 
(18,275) 
10,621 
(38,029) 
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 Dec6
 
434,940 
490,933 
521,671 
Consolidated statement of cash flows
for the year ended 31 December 2024
2024
2023
2022
$m
$m
$m
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
347
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Cash and cash equivalents comprise:
– cash and balances at central banks
 
267,674 
285,868 
327,002 
– loans and advances to banks of one month or less
 
69,803 
76,620 
72,295 
– reverse repurchase agreements with banks of one month or less
 
58,290 
64,341 
68,682 
– treasury bills, other bills and certificates of deposit less than three months8
 
27,307 
33,303 
26,727 
– cash collateral, net settlement accounts and items in course of collection from/transmission to other banks
 
9,827 
14,866 
18,878 
– cash and cash equivalents held for sale7
 
2,039 
15,935 
8,087 
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 Dec6
 
434,940 
490,933 
521,671 
Consolidated statement of cash flows (continued)
for the year ended 31 December 2024
2024
2023
2022
$m
$m
$m
 
Interest received was $110,106m (2023: $98,910m; 2022: $55,664m), interest paid was $81,680m (2023: $65,980m; 2022: $22,856m) and 
dividends received (excluding dividends received from associates, which are presented separately above) were $2,812m (2023: $1,869m; 2022: 
$1,638m).
1
Adjustment to bring changes between opening and closing balance sheet amounts to average rates. This is not done on a line-by-line basis, as details cannot be 
determined without unreasonable expense. 
2
Post adoption of IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’, certain assets have been reclassified from ‘Investing activities’ to ‘Operating activities’. The comparative data 
for 2022 have not been re-presented.
3 This includes $9.3bn from the sale of our banking business in Canada.
4
This includes $10.6bn from the sale of our retail banking business in France and $1.8bn from the sale of our business in Argentina.
5
Subordinated liabilities changes during the year are attributable to repayments of $(2.0)bn (2023: $(2.1)bn; 2022: $(1.8)bn) of securities. Non-cash changes 
during the year included foreign exchange gains/losses of $1.6bn gain (2023: $0.6bn loss; 2022: $1.1bn gain) and fair value gains/losses of $1.0bn gain (2023: 
$0.8bn loss; 2022: $3.1bn gain).
6
At 31 December 2024, $50.4bn (2023: $61.8bn; 2022: $59.3bn) was not available for use by HSBC due to a range of restrictions, including currency exchange 
and other restrictions.
7
Includes $1.9bn (2023: $5.6bn, 2022: $6.5bn) of cash and balances at central banks and $0.1bn (2023: $10.5bn, 2022: $0.2bn) of loans and advances to banks of 
one month or less. There is nil balance in 2024 for reverse repurchase agreements with banks of one month or less (2023: $0.2bn, 2022: $1.3bn) and cash 
collateral, net settlement accounts and items in course of collection from/transmission to other banks (2023: $(0.4)bn, 2022: $(0.2)bn).
8 The amount in this line is included in the ‘Financial investments’ and ‘Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value through profit 
or loss’ line items in the Consolidated balance sheet on page 343.
Financial statements
348
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

HSBC Holdings income statement 
for the year ended 31 December 2024
2024
2023
2022
Notes*
$m
$m
$m
Net interest expense
 
(5,758) 
(5,339) 
(3,074) 
– interest income
 
3,053 
2,864 
937 
– interest expense
 
(8,811) 
(8,203) 
(4,011) 
Net fee (expense)/income
 
(10) 
2 
(3) 
Net income from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value basis
3
 
2,899 
1,063 
2,129 
Changes in fair value of designated debt and related derivatives1
3
 
(125) 
(1,468) 
2,144 
Changes in fair value of other financial instruments mandatorily measured at fair value through 
profit or loss
3
 
2,086 
3,692 
(2,409) 
Gains less losses from financial investments
 
2 
45 
58 
Dividend income from subsidiaries3
 
33,846 
16,824 
9,478 
Other operating income
 
276 
332 
91 
Total operating income
 
33,216 
15,151 
8,414 
Employee compensation and benefits
5
 
(29) 
(15) 
(41) 
General and administrative expenses
 
(1,148) 
(1,327) 
(1,586) 
(Impairment) of subsidiaries/reversal of impairment3
19
 
(11,490) 
(5,574) 
2,493 
Total operating expenses
 
(12,667) 
(6,916) 
866 
Profit before tax
 
20,549 
8,235 
9,280 
Tax credit2,3
 
499 
977 
3,077 
Profit for the year
 
21,048 
9,212 
12,357 
* For Notes on the financial statements, see page 353.
1 The debt instruments, issued for funding purposes, are designated under the fair value option to reduce an accounting mismatch.
2 The tax credit in 2022 includes $2.2bn arising from the recognition of a deferred tax asset from historical tax losses in HSBC Holdings. This was a result of 
improved profit forecasts for the UK tax group, which accelerated the expected utilisation of these losses and reduced uncertainty regarding their recoverability.
3 The amounts recorded within profit before tax with respect to dividend income from subsidiaries and impairment/reversal of impairment of subsidiaries are not 
subject to tax.
HSBC Holdings statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2024
2024
2023
2022
$m
$m
$m
Profit for the year
 
21,048 
9,212 
12,357 
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Changes in fair value of financial liabilities designated at fair value upon initial recognition arising from changes 
in own credit risk
 
21 
(124) 
326 
– before income taxes
 
32 
(166) 
435 
– income taxes
 
(11) 
42 
(109) 
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year, net of tax
 
21 
(124) 
326 
Total comprehensive income for the year
 
21,069 
9,088 
12,683 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
349
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

HSBC Holdings balance sheet
31 Dec 2024
31 Dec 2023
Notes*
$m
$m
Assets
Cash and balances with HSBC undertakings
 
2,548 
7,029 
Financial assets with HSBC undertakings designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value
 
61,286 
59,879 
Derivatives
15
 
3,054 
3,344 
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings
 
37,677 
27,354 
Trading Assets
 
709 
— 
Financial investments
16
 
10,328 
19,558 
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets
 
4,353 
5,341 
Current tax assets
 
305 
924 
Investments in subsidiaries
19
 
152,337 
159,478 
Intangible assets
 
162 
180 
Deferred tax assets
 
1,498 
2,082 
Total assets at 31 Dec
 
274,257 
285,169 
Liabilities and equity
Liabilities
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings
 
231 
168 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value
25
 
41,582 
43,638 
Derivatives
15
 
5,340 
6,090 
Debt securities in issue
26
 
64,320 
65,239 
Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities
 
3,097 
4,289 
Subordinated liabilities
29
 
23,548 
24,439 
Total liabilities
 
138,118 
143,863 
Equity
Called up share capital
32
 
8,973 
9,631 
Share premium account
32
 
14,810 
14,738 
Other equity instruments
32
 
19,024 
17,703 
Merger and other reserves
 
33,664 
35,946 
Retained earnings
 
59,668 
63,288 
Total equity
 
136,139 
141,306 
Total liabilities and equity at 31 Dec
 
274,257 
285,169 
* For Notes on the financial statements, see page 353. 
The accompanying notes on pages 353 to 438, the audited sections in the Risk review on pages 126 to 235 and ‘Directors’ remuneration 
report’ on pages 279 to 317 form an integral part of these financial statements.
These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 19 February 2025 and signed on its behalf by:
Sir Mark E Tucker
Pam Kaur
Group Chairman
Group Chief Financial Officer 
Financial statements
350
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

HSBC Holdings statement of changes in equity 
for the year ended 31 December 2024
Other 
reserves
Called up
share
capital
Share
premium
Other
equity
instruments
Retained
earnings1,2
Merger 
and other
reserves
Total
shareholders’
equity
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
At 1 Jan 2024
 
9,631 
14,738 
17,703 
63,288 
35,946 
141,306 
Profit for the year
 
— 
— 
— 
21,048 
— 
21,048 
Other comprehensive income (net of tax)
 
— 
— 
— 
21 
— 
21 
– changes in fair value of financial liabilities designated at fair value due to 
movement in own credit risk 
 
— 
— 
— 
21 
— 
21 
Total comprehensive income for the year
 
— 
— 
— 
21,069 
— 
21,069 
Shares issued under employee share plans
 
5 
72 
— 
(181) 
— 
(104) 
Capital securities issued3
 
— 
— 
3,571 
— 
— 
3,571 
Purchase and cancellation of shares4
 
(663) 
— 
— 
(11,043) 
663 
(11,043) 
Dividends to shareholders
 
— 
— 
— 
(16,410) 
— 
(16,410) 
Redemption of capital securities5 
 
— 
— 
(2,250) 
— 
— 
(2,250) 
Transfers6
 
— 
— 
— 
2,945 
(2,945) 
— 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
8,973 
14,810 
19,024 
59,668 
33,664 
136,139 
At 1 Jan 2023
 
10,147 
14,664 
19,746 
67,996 
40,555 
153,108 
Profit for the year
 
— 
— 
— 
9,212 
— 
9,212 
Other comprehensive income (net of tax)
 
— 
— 
— 
(124) 
— 
(124) 
– changes in fair value of financial liabilities designated at fair value due to 
movement in own credit risk
 
— 
— 
— 
(124) 
— 
(124) 
Total comprehensive income for the year
 
— 
— 
— 
9,088 
— 
9,088 
Shares issued under employee share plans
 
5 
74 
— 
(328) 
— 
(249) 
Capital securities issued
 
— 
— 
1,980 
— 
— 
1,980 
Purchase and cancellation of shares
 
(521) 
— 
— 
(7,025) 
521 
(7,025) 
Dividends to shareholders
 
— 
— 
— 
(11,593) 
— 
(11,593) 
Redemption of capital securities
 
— 
— 
(4,023) 
20 
— 
(4,003) 
Transfers6
 
— 
— 
— 
5,130 
(5,130) 
— 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
9,631 
14,738 
17,703 
63,288 
35,946 
141,306 
At 1 Jan 2022
 
10,316 
14,602 
22,414 
65,116 
37,882 
150,330 
Profit for the year
 
— 
— 
— 
12,357 
— 
12,357 
Other comprehensive income (net of tax)
 
— 
— 
— 
326 
— 
326 
– changes in fair value of financial liabilities designated at fair value due to 
movement in own credit risk
 
— 
— 
— 
326 
— 
326 
Total comprehensive income for the year
 
— 
— 
— 
12,683 
— 
12,683 
Shares issued under employee share plans
 
5 
62 
— 
(161) 
— 
(94) 
Capital securities issued
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Purchase and cancellation of shares
 
(174) 
— 
— 
(1,001) 
174 
(1,001) 
Dividends to shareholders
 
— 
— 
— 
(6,544) 
— 
(6,544) 
Redemption of capital securities 
 
— 
— 
(2,668) 
402 
— 
(2,266) 
Transfers6
 
— 
— 
— 
(2,499) 
2,499 
— 
At 31 Dec 2022
 
10,147 
14,664 
19,746 
67,996 
40,555 
153,108 
 
Dividends per ordinary share at 31 December 2024 were $0.82 (2023: $0.53; 2022: $0.27).
1 Retained earnings include unrealised profits from intercompany transactions and share-based payment reserves, which are excluded from distributable 
reserves. Distributable reserves include the distributable portions of retained earnings and the merger reserve. Distributable reserves are reduced by ordinary 
dividend payments, distributions on additional tier 1 instruments, share buy-backs and impairments in investments in subsidiaries. They are increased by profits 
and the realisation of retained earnings or merger reserves upon impairment of an associated investment in subsidiary.
2 At 31 December 2024, retained earnings included 29,739,384 own shares held. These include own shares held by HSBC Holdings for the benefit of 
beneficiaries within employee trusts for the settlement of shares expected to be delivered under employee share schemes or bonus plans.
3 HSBC Holdings issued SGD1,500m 5.250% contingent convertible securities in June 2024, and a further $1,350m 6.875% and $1,150m 6.950% contingent 
convertible securities in September 2024. All instruments were recorded net of issuance cost.
4 HSBC Holdings announced the following share buy-backs during the year: a share buy-back of up to $2.0bn in February 2024, which was completed in April 
2024; a share buy-back of up to $3.0bn in April 2024, which was completed in July 2024; a share buy-back of up to $3.0bn in July 2024, which was completed in 
October 2024; and a share buy-back of up to $3.0bn in October 2024, which was completed in February 2025.
5 In September 2024, HSBC Holdings redeemed its $2,250m 6.375% contingent convertible securities.
6 At 31 December 2024, an impairment of $11,442m (2023: $5,512m) of HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited was recognised, resulting in a permitted transfer 
of $2,945m (2023: $5,130m) from the remaining historical associated merger reserve to retained earnings, and a realisation of nil share-based payment reserves 
(2023: $382m) to retained earnings. In 2022, a part-reversal of the impairment resulted in a transfer from retained earnings back to the merger reserve of 
$2,499m.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
351
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

HSBC Holdings statement of cash flows 
for the year ended 31 December 2024
2024
2023
2022
$m
$m
$m
Profit before tax
 
20,549 
8,235 
9,280 
Adjustments for non-cash items
 
11,721 
5,611 
(2,500) 
– depreciation, amortisation and impairment/expected credit losses
 
11,552 
5,629 
(2,428) 
– share-based payment expense
 
1 
— 
1 
– other non-cash items included in profit before tax
 
53 
(38) 
(73) 
– elimination of exchange differences1
 
115 
20 
— 
Changes in operating assets and liabilities
Change in loans and advances to HSBC undertakings
 
(2,753) 
(1,267) 
(1,657) 
Change in financial assets with HSBC undertakings designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value
 
(1,978) 
(7,767) 
(914) 
Change in net trading securities and net derivatives
 
(1,537) 
(529) 
4,712 
Change in other assets
 
603 
363 
51 
Change in financial investments
 
— 
— 
196 
Change in debt securities in issue
 
469 
1,964 
(5,625) 
Change in financial liabilities designated at fair value
 
292 
3,096 
(4,755) 
Change in other liabilities
 
(1,897) 
1,947 
(3,394) 
Tax received
 
1,691 
577 
215 
Net cash from operating activities
 
27,160 
12,230 
(4,391) 
Purchase of financial investments
 
(29,812) 
(7,803) 
(21,481) 
Proceeds from the sale and maturity of financial investments 
 
31,779 
20,074 
17,165 
Net cash outflow from acquisition of or increase in stake of subsidiaries
 
(7,473) 
(2,517) 
(5,696) 
Repayment of capital from subsidiaries
 
2,963 
4,993 
3,860 
Net investment in intangible assets
 
(43) 
(46) 
(39) 
Net cash from investing activities
 
(2,586) 
14,701 
(6,191) 
Issue of ordinary share capital and other equity instruments
 
3,648 
2,059 
67 
Redemption of preference shares and other equity instruments
 
(2,250) 
(4,003) 
(2,266) 
Purchase of own shares
 
(532) 
(855) 
(438) 
Cancellation of shares
 
(11,204) 
(5,812) 
(2,298) 
Subordinated loan capital issued
 
4,268 
5,270 
7,300 
Subordinated loan capital repaid
 
(3,994) 
— 
— 
Debt securities issued
 
16,102 
17,180 
18,076 
Debt securities repaid
 
(18,179) 
(13,047) 
(10,094) 
Dividends paid on ordinary shares
 
(15,348) 
(10,492) 
(5,330) 
Dividends paid to holders of other equity instruments
 
(1,062) 
(1,101) 
(1,214) 
Net cash from financing activities
 
(28,551) 
(10,801) 
3,803 
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents
 
(3,977) 
16,130 
(6,779) 
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January
 
22,814 
6,756 
13,535 
Exchange differences in respect of cash and cash equivalents2
 
(144) 
(72) 
— 
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 Dec
 
18,693 
22,814 
6,756 
Cash and cash equivalents comprise:
– cash at bank with HSBC undertakings
 
2,548 
7,029 
3,210 
– cash collateral and net settlement accounts
 
2,544 
3,422 
3,544 
– loans and advances to HSBC undertakings of one month or less
 
8,500 
— 
— 
– treasury and other eligible bills
 
5,101 
12,363 
2 
 
Interest received was $6,624m (2023: $5,695m; 2022: $2,410m), interest paid was $8,800m (2023: $7,754m; 2022: $3,813m) and dividends 
received were $33,846m (2023: $16,824m; 2022: $9,478m).
1 Adjustment to bring changes between opening and closing balance sheet amounts to average rates. This is not done on a line-by-line basis, as details cannot be 
determined without unreasonable expense. As this change has immaterial impact, 2022 prior period comparatives have not been restated.
2 In 2023, additional disclosure has been made in respect of exchange differences on cash and cash equivalents. As this change has immaterial impact, 2022 prior 
period comparatives have not been restated.
Financial statements
352
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Notes on the financial statements
Contents
353
 
1 Basis of preparation and material accounting policies
366
 
2 Net fee income
367
 
3 Net income/(expense) from financial instruments measured at 
fair value through profit or loss 
367
 
4 Insurance business
374
 
5 Employee compensation and benefits
379
 
6 Auditor’s remuneration 
380
 
7 Tax
382
 
8 Dividends
383
 
9 Earnings per share
383
 10 Segmental analysis
386
 11 Trading assets 
386
 12 Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value 
393
 13 Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value 
395
 14 Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily 
measured at fair value through profit or loss
395
 15 Derivatives
399
 16 Financial investments
400
 17 Assets pledged, collateral received and assets 
transferred
401
 18 Interests in associates and joint ventures
405
 19 Investments in subsidiaries
407
20 Structured entities
409
 21 Goodwill and intangible assets
411
 22 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets
411
 23 Assets held for sale, liabilities of disposal groups held for sale 
and business acquisitions
413
 24 Trading liabilities
414
25 Financial liabilities designated at fair value
414
26 Debt securities in issue
414
27 Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities
415
28 Provisions
416
29 Subordinated liabilities
417
30 Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet 
commitments
422
31 Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities
423
32 Called up share capital and other equity instruments
425
33 Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees
426
34 Finance lease receivables
426
35 Legal proceedings and regulatory matters
429
36 Related party transactions
430
37 Events after the balance sheet date
430
38 HSBC Holdings’ subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates
1
Basis of preparation and material accounting policies
1.1 Basis of preparation
(a) Compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards
The consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings comply with UK-adopted international 
accounting standards and with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and have also applied international financial reporting standards 
adopted pursuant to Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 as it applies in the European Union. These financial statements are also prepared in 
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (‘IFRS Accounting 
Standards’), including interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee, as there are no applicable differences from IFRS 
Accounting Standards for the periods presented. There were no unendorsed standards effective for the year ended 31 December 2024 
affecting these consolidated and separate financial statements. 
IFRS Accounting Standards adopted during the year ended 31 December 2024
There were no new standards, amendments to standards or interpretations that had an effect on these financial statements. Accounting 
policies have been applied consistently. 
(b) Differences between IFRS Accounting Standards and Hong Kong Financial Reporting 
Standards 
There are no significant differences between IFRS Accounting Standards and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards in terms of their 
application to HSBC, and consequently there would be no significant differences had the financial statements been prepared in accordance 
with Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards. The ‘Notes on the financial statements’, taken together with the ‘Report of the Directors’, 
include the aggregate of all disclosures necessary to satisfy IFRS Accounting Standards and Hong Kong Financial Reporting Standards. 
(c) Future accounting developments
Minor amendments to IFRS Accounting Standards
The International Accounting Standards Board (‘IASB’) has published a number of minor amendments to IFRS Accounting Standards that are 
effective from 1 January 2025. HSBC expects they will have an insignificant effect, when adopted, on the consolidated financial statements of 
HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings.
Other amendments and new IFRS Accounting Standards
Amendments to IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ and IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’
In May 2024, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’ and IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’, effective for 
annual reporting periods beginning on, or after, 1 January 2026. In addition to guidance as to when certain financial liabilities can be deemed 
settled when using an electronic payment system, the amendments also provide further clarification regarding the classification of financial 
assets that contain contractual terms that change the timing or amount of contractual cash flows, including those arising from ESG-related 
contingencies, and financial assets with certain non-recourse features. The Group is undertaking an assessment of the potential impact.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
353
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

IFRS 18 ‘Presentation and Disclosure in Financial Statements’
In April 2024, the IASB issued IFRS 18 ‘Presentation and Disclosure in Financial Statements’, effective for annual reporting periods beginning 
on or after 1 January 2027. The new accounting standard aims to give users of financial statements more transparent and comparable 
information about an entity’s financial performance. It will replace IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ but carries over many 
requirements from that IFRS Accounting Standard unchanged. In addition, there are three sets of new requirements relating to the structure of 
the income statement, management-defined performance measures and the aggregation and disaggregation of financial information.
While IFRS 18 will not change recognition criteria or measurement bases, it may have an impact on presenting information in the financial 
statements, in particular the income statement and to a lesser extent the cash flow statement. HSBC are currently assessing impacts and data 
readiness before developing a more detailed implementation plan.
(d) Foreign currencies
HSBC’s consolidated financial statements are presented in US dollars because the US dollar and currencies linked to it form the major currency 
bloc in which HSBC transacts and funds its business. The US dollar is also HSBC Holdings’ functional currency because the US dollar and 
currencies linked to it are the most significant currencies relevant to the underlying transactions, events and conditions of its subsidiaries, as 
well as representing a significant proportion of its funds generated from financing activities.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange at the date of the transaction. Assets and liabilities denominated in 
foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date, except non-monetary assets and liabilities measured at 
historical cost, which are translated using the rate of exchange at the initial transaction date. Exchange differences are included in other 
comprehensive income or in the income statement depending on where the gain or loss on the underlying item is recognised. Except for 
subsidiaries operating in hyperinflationary economies, in the consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of branches, 
subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates whose functional currency is not US dollars are translated into the Group’s presentation currency at 
the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date, while their results are translated into US dollars at the average rates of exchange for the 
reporting period. Exchange differences arising are recognised in other comprehensive income. On disposal of a foreign operation, exchange 
differences previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement.
(e) Presentation of information
Certain disclosures required by IFRS Accounting Standards have been included in the sections marked as (‘Audited’) in the Annual Report and 
Accounts 2024 as follows:
–
Disclosures concerning the nature and extent of risks relating to insurance contracts and financial instruments are included in the ‘Risk 
review’ on pages 126 to 235.
–
The ‘Own funds disclosure’ is included in the ‘Risk review’ on page 205.
HSBC follows the UK Finance Disclosure Code. The UK Finance Disclosure Code aims to increase the quality and comparability of UK banks’ 
disclosures and sets out five disclosure principles together with supporting guidance agreed in 2010. In line with the principles of the UK 
Finance Disclosure Code, HSBC assesses good practice recommendations issued from time to time by relevant regulators and standard 
setters, and will assess the applicability and relevance of such guidance, enhancing disclosures where appropriate.
(f) Critical estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial information requires the use of estimates and judgements about future conditions. In view of the inherent 
uncertainties and the high level of subjectivity involved in the recognition or measurement of items, highlighted as the ‘critical estimates and 
judgements’ in section 1.2 below, it is possible that the outcomes in the next financial year could differ from those on which management’s 
estimates are based. This could result in materially different estimates and judgements from those reached by management for the purposes 
of these financial statements. Management’s selection of HSBC’s accounting policies that contain critical estimates and judgements reflects 
the materiality of the items to which the policies are applied and the high degree of judgement and estimation uncertainty involved.
Management has considered the impact of climate-related risks on HSBC’s financial position and performance. While the effects of climate 
change are a source of uncertainty, as at 31 December 2024 management did not consider there to be a material impact on our critical 
judgements and estimates from the physical, transition and other climate-related risks in the short to medium term. In particular, management 
has considered the known and observable potential impacts of climate-related risks of associated judgements and estimates in our value in use 
calculations.
(g) Going concern
The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, as the Directors are satisfied that the Group and parent company have the 
resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future. In making this assessment, the Directors have considered a wide range of 
information relating to present and future conditions, including future projections of profitability, liquidity, capital requirements and capital 
resources. 
These considerations include stressed scenarios that reflect the uncertainty in the macroeconomic environment following uncertain inflation, 
rapidly changing interest rates, slower Chinese economic activity, and disrupted supply chains as a result of the Russia-Ukraine war, conflict in 
the Middle East and US-China tensions. They also included other top and emerging risks, including climate change, as well as the related 
impacts on profitability, capital and liquidity. 
1.2 Summary of material accounting policies
(a) Consolidation and related policies
Investments in subsidiaries
Where an entity is governed by voting rights, HSBC consolidates when it holds – directly or indirectly – the necessary voting rights to pass 
resolutions by the governing body. In all other cases, the assessment of control is more complex and requires judgement of other factors, 
including having exposure to variability of returns, power to direct relevant activities, and whether power is held as agent or principal.
Notes on the financial statements
354
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The amount of non-controlling interest is measured either at fair value 
or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. This election is made for each business 
combination. HSBC Holdings’ investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less impairment losses.
Impairment testing is performed where there is an indication of impairment, by comparing the recoverable amount of the relevant investment 
to its carrying amount. Indicators of impairment include both external and internal sources of information. Similarly, assessments are made as 
to whether an impairment loss recognised in prior periods may no longer exist or may have decreased. Where this is the case, such an 
impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimate used to determine the relevant recoverable amount since the last 
impairment loss was recognised, and to the extent that it does not increase the carrying amount above that had no impairment loss been 
previously recognised.
Critical estimates and judgements 
Investments in subsidiaries are tested for impairment when there is an indication that the investment may be impaired, which involves estimations of value in use 
reflecting management’s best estimate of the future cash flows of the investment and the rates used to discount these cash flows, both of which are subject to 
uncertain factors as follows:
Judgements
Estimates
– The accuracy of forecast cash flows is subject to a high 
degree of uncertainty in volatile market conditions. 
Where such circumstances are determined to exist, 
management re-tests for impairment or reversal more 
frequently than once a year when indicators exist. This 
ensures that the assumptions on which the cash flow 
forecasts are based continue to reflect current market 
conditions and management’s best estimate of future 
business prospects.
– The future cash flows of each investment are sensitive to the cash flows projected for the periods 
for which detailed forecasts are available and to assumptions regarding the long-term pattern of 
sustainable cash flows thereafter. Forecasts are compared with actual performance and verifiable 
economic data, but they reflect management’s view of future business prospects at the time of the 
assessment.
– The rates used to discount future expected cash flows can have a significant effect on their 
valuation, and are based on the costs of equity assigned to the investment. The cost of equity 
percentage is generally derived from a capital asset pricing model and the market implied cost of 
equity, which incorporates inputs reflecting a number of financial and economic variables, including 
the risk-free interest rate in the country concerned and a premium for the risk of the business being 
evaluated. These variables are subject to fluctuations in external market rates and economic 
conditions beyond management’s control.
– Key assumptions used in estimating impairment in subsidiaries and their reversal where relevant are 
described in Note 19. 
 
Goodwill
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units (’CGUs’) for the purpose of impairment testing, which is undertaken at the lowest level at which 
goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. HSBC’s CGUs are based on its main legal entities subdivided by global business, 
except for Global Banking and Markets, for which goodwill is monitored on a global basis.
Impairment testing is performed at least once a year, or whenever there is an indication of impairment, by comparing the recoverable amount 
of a CGU with its carrying amount.
Goodwill is included in a disposal group if the disposal group is a CGU to which goodwill has been allocated or it is an operation within such a 
CGU. The amount of goodwill included in a disposal group is measured on the basis of the relative values of the operation disposed of and the 
portion of the CGU retained.
Critical estimates and judgements
The review of goodwill and non-financial assets (see Note 1.2(n)) for impairment reflects management’s best estimate of the future cash flows of the CGUs and the 
rates used to discount these cash flows, both of which are subject to uncertain factors as follows:
Judgements
Estimates
– The accuracy of forecast cash flows is subject to a 
high degree of uncertainty in volatile market 
conditions. Where such circumstances are 
determined to exist, management re-tests goodwill 
for impairment more frequently than once a year 
when indicators of impairment exist. This ensures 
that the assumptions on which the cash flow 
forecasts are based continue to reflect current 
market conditions and management’s best estimate 
of future business prospects.
– The future cash flows of the CGUs are sensitive to the cash flows projected for the periods for which 
detailed forecasts are available and to assumptions regarding the long-term pattern of sustainable cash 
flows thereafter. Forecasts are compared with actual performance and verifiable economic data, but 
they reflect management’s view of future business prospects at the time of the assessment.
– The rates used to discount future expected cash flows can have a significant effect on their valuation, 
and are based on the costs of equity assigned to individual CGUs. The cost of equity percentage is 
generally derived from a capital asset pricing model and market implied cost of equity, which 
incorporates inputs reflecting a number of financial and economic variables, including the risk-free 
interest rate in the country concerned and a premium for the risk of the business being evaluated. 
These variables are subject to fluctuations in external market rates and economic conditions beyond 
management’s control.
– Key assumptions used in estimating goodwill and non-financial asset impairment are described in Note 
21.
 
The Group does not consider there to be a significant risk of a material adjustment to the carrying amount of goodwill in the next financial year, 
but does consider this to be an area that is inherently judgemental. The Group’s consideration of this risk includes taking account of the 
potential implications for CGUs arising from the revised organisational structure effective from 1 January 2025.
HSBC sponsored structured entities
HSBC is considered to sponsor another entity if, in addition to ongoing involvement with the entity, it had a key role in establishing that entity or 
in bringing together relevant counterparties so the transaction that is the purpose of the entity could occur. HSBC is generally not considered a 
sponsor if the only involvement with the entity is merely administrative.
Interests in associates and joint arrangements
Joint arrangements are investments in which HSBC, together with one or more parties, has joint control. Depending on HSBC’s rights and 
obligations, the joint arrangement is classified as either a joint operation or a joint venture. 
HSBC classifies investments in entities over which it has significant influence, and those that are neither subsidiaries nor joint arrangements, as 
associates.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
355
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

HSBC recognises its share of the assets, liabilities and results in a joint operation. Investments in associates and interests in joint ventures are 
recognised using the equity method. The attributable share of the results and reserves of joint ventures and associates is included in the 
consolidated financial statements of HSBC based on either financial statements made up to 31 December or pro-rated amounts adjusted for 
any material transactions or events occurring between the date the financial statements are available and 31 December.
Investments in associates and joint ventures are assessed at each reporting date and tested for impairment when there is an indication that the 
investment may be impaired, by comparing the recoverable amount of the relevant investment to its carrying amount. Goodwill on acquisition 
of interests in joint ventures and associates is not tested separately for impairment, but is assessed as part of the carrying amount of the 
investment. Previously recognised impairments are assessed for reversal when there are indicators that they may no longer exist or have 
decreased. Any reversal, which may arise only from changes in estimates used to determine the prior impairment loss, is recognised to the 
extent that it does not increase the carrying amount above that had no impairment loss been previously recognised. 
Critical estimates and judgements
The most significant critical estimates relate to the assessment of impairment or its reversal of our investment in Bank of Communications Co., Limited (‘BoCom’), 
which involves estimations of value in use:
Judgements
Estimates
– The value in use calculation uses discounted cash flow projections based on 
management’s best estimate of future earnings available to ordinary shareholders 
prepared in accordance with IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’. Those cash flows use 
estimates based on BoCom’s current condition and so do not include estimated cash 
flows arising from uncommitted future actions that may affect the performance of the 
investment which will be considered at the relevant time should they arise.
– Key assumptions used in estimating BoCom’s value in use and the sensitivity of the 
value in use calculations to different assumptions are described in Note 18.
 
(b) Income and expense
Operating income
Interest income and expense
Interest income and expense for all financial instruments, excluding those classified as held for trading or designated at fair value, is recognised 
in ‘Interest income’ and ‘Interest expense’ in the income statement using the effective interest method. However, as an exception to this, 
interest on debt instruments issued by HSBC for funding purposes that are designated under the fair value option to reduce an accounting 
mismatch and on derivatives managed in conjunction with those debt instruments is included in interest expense.
Interest on credit-impaired financial assets is recognised by applying the effective interest rate to the amortised cost (i.e. gross carrying amount 
of the asset less allowance for expected credit losses).
Non-interest income and expense
HSBC generates fee income from services provided over time, such as account service and card fees, or when HSBC delivers a specific 
transaction at a point in time, such as broking services and import/export services. With the exception of certain fund management and 
performance fees, all other fees are generated at a fixed price. Fund management and performance fees can be variable depending on the size 
of the customer portfolio and HSBC’s performance as fund manager. Variable fees are recognised when all uncertainties are resolved. Fee 
income is generally earned from short-term contracts with payment terms that do not include a significant financing component.
HSBC acts as principal in the majority of contracts with customers, with the exception of broking services. For most brokerage trades, HSBC 
acts as agent in the transaction and recognises broking income net of fees payable to other parties in the arrangement.
HSBC recognises fees earned on transaction-based arrangements at a point in time when it has fully provided the service to the customer. 
Where the contract requires services to be provided over time, income is recognised on a systematic basis over the life of the agreement.
Where HSBC offers a package of services that contains multiple non-distinct performance obligations, such as those included in account 
service packages, the promised services are treated as a single performance obligation. If a package of services contains distinct performance 
obligations, the corresponding transaction price is allocated to each performance obligation based on the estimated stand-alone selling prices.
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established. 
Net income/(expense) from financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss includes the following: 
–
‘Net income from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value basis’: This comprises net trading activities, which 
includes all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities held for trading and other financial 
instruments managed on a fair value basis, together with the related interest income, interest expense and dividend income, excluding the 
effect of changes in the credit risk of liabilities managed on a fair value basis. It also includes all gains and losses from changes in the fair 
value of derivatives that are managed in conjunction with financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss.
–
‘Net income/(expense) from assets and liabilities of insurance businesses, including related derivatives, measured at fair value through profit 
or loss’: This includes all gains and losses from changes in the fair value, together with related interest income, interest expense and 
dividend income in respect of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss, and those derivatives managed in 
conjunction with the above that can be separately identifiable from other trading derivatives.
–
‘Changes in fair value of designated debt instruments and related derivatives’: Interest paid on debt instruments and interest cash flows on 
related derivatives is presented in interest expense where doing so reduces an accounting mismatch.
–
‘Changes in fair value of other financial instruments mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss’: This includes interest on 
instruments that fail the solely payments of principal and interest (‘SPPI’) test, see (d) below.
The accounting policies for insurance service result and insurance finance income/(expense) are disclosed in Note 1.2(j).
Notes on the financial statements
356
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

(c) Valuation of financial instruments 
All financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability 
in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The fair value of a financial instrument on initial recognition is 
generally its transaction price (that is, the fair value of the consideration given or received). However, if there is a difference between the transaction 
price and the fair value of financial instruments whose fair value is based on a quoted price in an active market or a valuation technique that uses 
only data from observable markets, HSBC recognises the difference as a trading gain or loss at inception (a ‘day 1 gain or loss’). In all other cases, 
the entire day 1 gain or loss is deferred and recognised in the income statement over the life of the transaction until the transaction matures, is 
closed out, the valuation inputs become observable or HSBC enters into an offsetting transaction.
The fair value of financial instruments is generally measured on an individual basis. However, in cases where HSBC manages a group of financial 
assets and liabilities according to its net market or credit risk exposure, the fair value of the group of financial instruments is measured on a net basis 
but the underlying financial assets and liabilities are presented separately in the financial statements, unless they satisfy the IFRS offsetting criteria. 
Financial instruments are classified into one of three fair value hierarchy levels, described in Note 12, ‘Fair values of financial instruments 
carried at fair value‘.
Critical estimates and judgements
The majority of valuation techniques employ only observable market data. However, certain financial instruments are classified on the basis of valuation techniques 
that feature one or more significant market inputs that are unobservable, and for them, the measurement of fair value is more judgemental:
Judgements
Estimates
– An instrument in its entirety is classified as valued using significant unobservable 
inputs if, in the opinion of management, greater than 5% of the instrument’s valuation 
is driven by unobservable inputs.
– ‘Unobservable’ in this context means that there is little or no current market data 
available from which to determine the price at which an arm’s length transaction would 
be likely to occur. It generally does not mean that there is no data available at all upon 
which to base a determination of fair value (consensus pricing data may, for example, 
be used).
– Details on the Group’s Level 3 financial instruments and the 
sensitivity of their valuation to the effect of applying reasonably 
possible alternative assumptions in determining their fair value are 
set out in Note 12.
 
(d) Financial instruments measured at amortised cost
Financial assets that are held to collect the contractual cash flows and which contain contractual terms that give rise on specified dates to cash 
flows that are solely payments of principal and interest are measured at amortised cost. Such financial assets include most loans and advances 
to banks and customers and some debt securities. In addition, most financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost. HSBC accounts for 
regular way amortised cost financial instruments using trade date accounting. The carrying amount of these financial assets at initial recognition 
includes any directly attributable transactions costs.
HSBC may commit to underwriting loans on fixed contractual terms for specified periods of time. When the loan arising from the lending 
commitment is expected to be sold shortly after origination, the commitment to lend is recorded as a derivative. When HSBC intends to hold 
the loan, the loan commitment is included in the impairment calculations set out below.
Financial assets are reclassified only when the business model for their management changes. Such changes, which are expected to be 
infrequent, are determined by senior management as a result of external or internal changes and must be significant to operations and 
demonstrable to external parties. Reclassifications are applied prospectively from the first day of the first reporting period following the change 
of business model. Where a financial asset is reclassified out of the amortised cost measurement category and into the fair value through other 
comprehensive income measurement category its fair value is measured at the date of reclassification. Any gain or loss arising from a 
difference between the previous amortised cost and fair value is recognised in other comprehensive income. The effective interest rate and the 
measurement of expected credit losses are not adjusted as a result of the reclassification.
Non-trading reverse repurchase, repurchase and similar agreements
When debt securities are sold subject to a commitment to repurchase them at a predetermined price (‘repos’), they remain on the balance 
sheet and a liability is recorded in respect of the consideration received. Securities purchased under commitments to resell (‘reverse repos’) are 
not recognised on the balance sheet and an asset is recorded in respect of the initial consideration paid. Non-trading repos and reverse repos 
are measured at amortised cost. The difference between the sale and repurchase price or between the purchase and resale price is treated as 
interest and recognised in net interest income over the life of the agreement.
Contracts that are economically equivalent to reverse repo or repo agreements (such as sales or purchases of debt securities entered into 
together with total return swaps with the same counterparty) are accounted for similarly to, and presented together with, reverse repo or repo 
agreements.
(e) Financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income 
Financial assets managed within a business model that is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling and which contain 
contractual terms that give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest are measured at fair value 
through other comprehensive income (‘FVOCI’). These comprise primarily debt securities. They are recognised on trade date when HSBC 
enters into contractual arrangements to purchase and are generally derecognised when they are either sold or redeemed. They are 
subsequently remeasured at fair value with changes therein (except for those relating to impairment, interest income and foreign currency 
exchange gains and losses) recognised in other comprehensive income until the assets are sold. Upon disposal, the cumulative gains or losses 
in other comprehensive income are recognised in the income statement as ‘Gains less losses from financial instruments’. Financial assets 
measured at FVOCI are included in the impairment calculations set out below and impairment is recognised in profit or loss.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
357
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

(f)
Equity securities measured at fair value with fair value movements presented in other 
comprehensive income
The equity securities for which fair value movements are shown in other comprehensive income are business facilitation and other similar 
investments where HSBC holds the investments other than to generate a capital return. Dividends from such investments are recognised in 
profit or loss. Gains or losses on the derecognition of these equity securities are not transferred to profit or loss. Otherwise, equity securities 
are measured at fair value through profit or loss.
(g) Financial instruments designated at fair value through profit or loss
Financial instruments, other than those held for trading, are classified in this category if they meet one or more of the criteria set out below and 
are so designated irrevocably at inception:
–
The use of the designation removes or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch.
–
A group of financial assets and liabilities or a group of financial liabilities is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in 
accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy.
–
The financial liability contains one or more non-closely related embedded derivatives.
Designated financial assets are recognised when HSBC enters into contracts with counterparties, which is generally on trade date, and are 
normally derecognised when the rights to the cash flows expire or are transferred. Designated financial liabilities are recognised when HSBC 
enters into contracts with counterparties, which is generally on settlement date, and are normally derecognised when extinguished. 
Subsequent changes in fair values are recognised in the income statement in ‘Net income from financial instruments held for trading or 
managed on a fair value basis’ or ‘Net income/(expense) from assets and liabilities of insurance businesses, including related derivatives, 
measured at fair value through profit or loss’ or ‘Changes in fair value of designated debt and related derivatives’ except for the effect of 
changes in the liabilities’ credit risk, which is presented in ‘Other comprehensive income’, unless that treatment would create or enlarge an 
accounting mismatch in profit or loss.
Under the above criteria, the main classes of financial instruments designated by HSBC are:
–
Debt instruments for funding purposes that are designated to reduce an accounting mismatch: The interest and/or foreign exchange 
exposure on certain fixed-rate debt securities issued has been matched with the interest and/or foreign exchange exposure on certain 
swaps as part of a documented risk management strategy.
–
Financial assets and financial liabilities under unit-linked and non-linked investment contracts: A contract under which HSBC does not accept 
significant insurance risk from another party is not classified as an insurance contract, other than investment contracts with discretionary 
participation features (‘DPF’), but is accounted for as a financial liability. Customer liabilities under linked and certain non-linked investment 
contracts issued by insurance subsidiaries are determined based on the fair value of the assets held in the linked funds or by a valuation 
method. The related financial assets and liabilities are managed and reported to management on a fair value basis. Designation at fair value 
of the financial assets and related liabilities allows changes in fair values to be recorded in the income statement and presented in the same 
line.
–
Financial liabilities that contain both deposit and derivative components: These financial liabilities are managed and their performance 
evaluated on a fair value basis.
(h) Derivatives
Derivatives are financial instruments that derive their value from the price of underlying items such as equities, interest rates or other indices. 
Derivatives are recognised initially and are subsequently measured at fair value through profit or loss. Derivatives are classified as assets when 
their fair value is positive or as liabilities when their fair value is negative. This includes embedded derivatives in financial liabilities, which are 
bifurcated from the host contract when they meet the definition of a derivative on a stand-alone basis.
Where the derivatives are managed with debt securities issued by HSBC that are designated at fair value where doing so reduces an 
accounting mismatch, the contractual interest is shown in ‘Interest expense’ together with the interest payable on the issued debt.
Hedge accounting
When derivatives are not part of fair value designated relationships, if held for risk management purposes they are designated in hedge 
accounting relationships where the required criteria for documentation and hedge effectiveness are met. HSBC uses these derivatives or, 
where allowed, other non-derivative hedging instruments in fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of net investments in foreign 
operations as appropriate to the risk being hedged.
Fair value hedge
Fair value hedge accounting does not change the recording of gains and losses on derivatives and other hedging instruments, but results in 
recognising changes in the fair value of the hedged assets or liabilities attributable to the hedged risk that would not otherwise be recognised in 
the income statement. If a hedge relationship no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, hedge accounting is discontinued and the 
cumulative adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item for which the effective interest rate method is used is amortised to the income 
statement on a recalculated effective interest rate, unless the hedged item has been derecognised, in which case it is recognised in the income 
statement immediately.
Cash flow hedge
The effective portion of gains and losses on hedging instruments is recognised in other comprehensive income and the ineffective portion of 
the change in fair value of derivative hedging instruments that are part of a cash flow hedge relationship is recognised immediately in the 
income statement within ‘Net income from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value basis’. The accumulated gains and 
losses recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement in the same periods in which the hedged item 
affects profit or loss. When a hedge relationship is discontinued, or partially discontinued, any cumulative gain or loss recognised in other 
comprehensive income remains in equity until the forecast transaction is recognised in the income statement. When a forecast transaction is 
no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income is immediately reclassified to 
the income statement.
Notes on the financial statements
358
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Net investment hedge
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for in a similar way to cash flow hedges. The effective portion of gains and 
losses on the hedging instrument is recognised in other comprehensive income and other gains and losses are recognised immediately in the 
income statement. Gains and losses previously recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement on the 
disposal, or part-disposal, of the foreign operation.
Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting
Non-qualifying hedges are derivatives entered into as economic hedges of assets and liabilities for which hedge accounting was not applied.
(i) Impairment of amortised cost and FVOCI financial assets
Expected credit losses (‘ECL’) are recognised for loans and advances to banks and customers, non-trading reverse repurchase agreements, 
other financial assets held at amortised cost, debt instruments measured at FVOCI, and certain loan commitments and financial guarantee 
contracts. At initial recognition, an allowance (or provision in the case of some loan commitments and financial guarantees) is recognised for 
ECL resulting from possible default events within the next 12 months, or less, where the remaining life is less than 12 months (’12-month 
ECL’). In the event of a significant increase in credit risk, an allowance (or provision) is recognised for ECL resulting from all possible default 
events over the expected life of the financial instrument (‘lifetime ECL’). Financial assets where 12-month ECL is recognised are considered to 
be ‘stage 1’; financial assets which are considered to have experienced a significant increase in credit risk are in ‘stage 2’; and financial assets 
for which there is objective evidence of impairment, and so are considered to be in default or otherwise credit impaired are in ‘stage 3’. 
Purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets (‘POCI’) are treated differently as set out below.
Credit impaired (stage 3)
HSBC determines that a financial instrument is credit impaired and in stage 3 by considering relevant objective evidence, primarily whether 
contractual payments of either principal or interest are past due for more than 90 days, there are other indications that the borrower is unlikely 
to pay such as that a concession has been granted to the borrower for economic or legal reasons relating to the borrower’s financial condition, 
or the loan is otherwise considered to be in default.
If such unlikeliness to pay is not identified at an earlier stage, it is deemed to occur when an exposure is 90 days past due. Therefore, the 
definitions of credit impaired and default are aligned as far as possible so that stage 3 represents all loans that are considered defaulted or 
otherwise credit impaired.
Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate to the amortised cost (i.e. gross carrying amount less allowance for ECL).
Write-off
Financial assets (and the related impairment allowances) are normally written off, either partially or in full, when there is no realistic prospect of 
recovery. Where loans are secured, this is generally after receipt of any proceeds from the realisation of security. In circumstances where the 
net realisable value of any collateral has been determined and there is no reasonable expectation of further recovery, write-off may be earlier.
Forbearance
Loans are identified as forborne and classified as either performing or non-performing when HSBC modifies the contractual terms due to 
financial difficulty of the borrower. Non-performing forborne loans are stage 3 and classified as non-performing until they meet the curing 
criteria, as specified by applicable credit risk policy (for example, when the loan is no longer in default and no other indicators of default have 
been present for at least 12 months). Any amount written off as a result of any modification of contractual terms upon entering forbearance 
would not be reversed.
The Group applies the EBA Guidelines on the application of definition of default for our retail portfolios, which affect credit risk policies and our 
reporting in respect of the status of loans as credit impaired principally due to forbearance (or curing thereof). Further details are provided under 
‘Forborne loans and advances’ on page 140.
Performing forborne loans are initially stage 2 and remain classified as forborne until they meet applicable curing criteria (for example, they 
continue to not be in default and no other indicators of default are present for a period of at least 24 months). At this point, the loan is either 
stage 1 or stage 2 as determined by comparing the risk of a default occurring at the reporting date (based on the modified contractual terms) 
and the risk of a default occurring at initial recognition (based on the original, unmodified contractual terms).
A forborne loan is derecognised if the existing agreement is cancelled and a new agreement is made on substantially different terms, or if the 
terms of an existing agreement are modified such that the forborne loan is a substantially different financial instrument. Any new loans that 
arise following derecognition events in these circumstances would generally be classified as POCI and will continue to be disclosed as 
forborne.
Loan modifications other than forborne loans
Loan modifications that are not identified as forborne are considered to be commercial restructurings. Where a commercial restructuring results 
in a modification (whether legalised through an amendment to the existing terms or the issuance of a new loan contract) such that HSBC’s 
rights to the cash flows under the original contract have expired, the old loan is derecognised and the new loan is recognised at fair value. The 
rights to cash flows are generally considered to have expired if the commercial restructuring is at market rates and no payment-related 
concession has been provided. Modifications of certain higher credit risk wholesale loans are assessed for derecognition, having regard to 
changes in contractual terms that either individually or in combination are judged to result in a substantially different financial instrument. 
Mandatory and general offer loan modifications that are not borrower specific, for example market-wide customer relief programmes, generally 
do not result in derecognition, but their stage allocation is determined considering all available and supportable information under our ECL 
impairment policy. Changes made to these financial instruments that are economically equivalent and required by interest rate benchmark 
reform do not result in the derecognition or a change in the carrying amount of the financial instrument, but instead require the effective 
interest rate to be updated to reflect the change of the interest rate benchmark. 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
359
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Significant increase in credit risk (stage 2)
An assessment of whether credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition is performed at each reporting period by considering 
the change in the risk of default occurring over the remaining life of the financial instrument. 
The assessment explicitly or implicitly compares the risk of default occurring at the reporting date compared with that at initial recognition, 
taking into account reasonable and supportable information, including information about past events, current conditions and future economic 
conditions. The assessment is unbiased, probability-weighted, and to the extent relevant, uses forward-looking information consistent with that 
used in the measurement of ECL. The analysis of credit risk is multifactor. The determination of whether a specific factor is relevant and its 
weight compared with other factors depends on the type of product, the characteristics of the financial instrument and the borrower, and the 
geographical region. Therefore, it is not possible to provide a single set of criteria that will determine what is considered to be a significant 
increase in credit risk, and these criteria will differ for different types of lending, particularly between retail and wholesale. However, unless 
identified at an earlier stage, all financial assets are deemed to have suffered a significant increase in credit risk when 30 days past due. In 
addition, wholesale loans that are individually assessed, which are typically corporate and commercial customers, and included on a watch or 
worry list, are included in stage 2.
For wholesale portfolios, the quantitative comparison assesses default risk using a lifetime probability of default (‘PD’), which encompasses a 
wide range of information including the obligor’s customer risk rating (‘CRR’), macroeconomic condition forecasts and credit transition 
probabilities. For origination CRRs up to 3.3, significant increase in credit risk is measured by comparing the average PD for the remaining term 
estimated at origination with the equivalent estimation at the reporting date. The quantitative measure of significance varies depending on the 
credit quality at origination as follows:
Origination CRR
Significance trigger – PD to increase by
0.1–1.2
15bps
2.1–3.3
30bps
 
For CRRs greater than 3.3 that are not impaired, a significant increase in credit risk is considered to have occurred when the origination PD has 
doubled. The significance of changes in PD was informed by expert credit risk judgement, referenced to historical credit migrations and to 
relative changes in external market rates.
For loans originated prior to the implementation of IFRS 9, the origination PD does not include adjustments to reflect expectations of future 
macroeconomic conditions since these are not available without the use of hindsight. In the absence of this data, origination PD must be 
approximated assuming through-the-cycle PDs and through-the-cycle migration probabilities, consistent with the instrument’s underlying 
modelling approach and the CRR at origination. For these loans, the quantitative comparison is supplemented with additional CRR deteriorationbased thresholds, as set out in the table below:
Origination CRR
Additional significance criteria – number of CRR grade notches 
deterioration required to identify as significant credit 
deterioration (stage 2) (> or equal to) 
0.1
5 notches
1.1–4.2
4 notches
4.3–5.1
3 notches
5.2–7.1
2 notches
7.2–8.2
1 notch
8.3
0 notch
 
Further information about the 23-grade scale used for CRR can be found on page 139. 
For retail portfolios, default risk is assessed using a reporting date 12-month PD derived from internal models, which incorporate all available 
information about the customer. This PD is adjusted for the effect of macroeconomic forecasts for periods longer than 12 months and is 
considered to be a reasonable approximation of a lifetime PD measure. Retail exposures are first segmented into homogenous portfolios, 
generally by country, product and brand. Within each portfolio, the stage 2 accounts are defined as accounts with an adjusted 12-month PD 
greater than the average 12-month PD of loans in that portfolio 12 months before they become 30 days past due. The expert credit risk 
judgement is that no prior increase in credit risk is significant. This portfolio-specific threshold therefore identifies loans with a PD higher than 
would be expected from loans that are performing as originally expected and higher than that which would have been acceptable at origination. 
It therefore approximates a comparison of origination to reporting date PDs.
We continue to refine the retail transfer criteria approach for certain portfolios as additional data becomes available, in order to utilise a more 
relative approach. These enhancements take advantage of the increase in origination-related data in the assessment of significant increases in 
credit risk by comparing remaining lifetime PD to the comparable remaining term lifetime PD at origination based on portfolio-specific 
origination segments. 
Unimpaired and without significant increase in credit risk (stage 1)
ECL resulting from default events that are possible within the next 12 months (‘12-month ECL’) are recognised for financial instruments that 
remain in stage 1.
Purchased or originated credit impaired 
Financial assets that are purchased or originated at a deep discount that reflects the incurred credit losses are considered to be POCI. This 
population includes new financial instruments recognised in most cases following the derecognition of forborne loans. The amount of change in 
lifetime ECL for a POCI loan is recognised in profit or loss until the POCI loan is derecognised, even if the lifetime ECL are less than the amount 
of ECL included in the estimated cash flows on initial recognition.
Movement between stages
Financial assets can be transferred between the different categories (other than POCI) depending on their relative increase in credit risk since 
initial recognition. Financial instruments are transferred out of stage 2 if their credit risk is no longer considered to be significantly increased 
since initial recognition based on the assessments described above. In the case of non-performing forborne loans, such financial instruments 
are transferred out of stage 3 when they no longer exhibit any evidence of credit impairment and meet the curing criteria as described above. 
Notes on the financial statements
360
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Measurement of ECL
The assessment of credit risk and the estimation of ECL are unbiased and probability-weighted, and incorporate all available information which 
is relevant to the assessment including information about past events, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts of future 
events and economic conditions at the reporting date. In addition, the estimation of ECL should take into account the time value of money and 
considers other factors such as climate-related risks.
In general, HSBC calculates ECL using three main components: a probability of default (‘PD’), a loss given default (’LGD’) and the exposure at 
default (‘EAD’).
The 12-month ECL is calculated by multiplying the 12-month PD, LGD and EAD. Lifetime ECL is calculated using the lifetime PD instead. The 
12-month and lifetime PDs represent the probability of default occurring over the next 12 months and the remaining maturity of the instrument 
respectively.
The EAD represents the expected balance at default, taking into account the repayment of principal and interest from the balance sheet date to 
the default event together with any expected drawdowns of committed facilities. The LGD represents expected losses on the EAD given the 
event of default, taking into account, among other attributes, the mitigating effect of collateral value at the time it is expected to be realised and 
the time value of money.
HSBC makes use of the IRB framework where possible, with recalibration to meet the differing IFRS 9 requirements as set out in the following 
table:
Model 
Regulatory capital
IFRS 9
PD
– Represents long-run average PD throughout a full economic cycle 
(for mortgage portfolios a hybrid approach, which sits between the 
extremes of point in time and through the cycle, is used for 
calculating long-run averages as required by the PRA)
– Default backstop of 90+ days past due for all portfolios (includes 
unlikely to pay (‘UTP’) criteria in line with internal policy)
– May be subject to a sovereign cap 
– Represents current portfolio quality and performance, adjusted for 
the impact of multiple forward-looking macroeconomic scenarios
– Default backstop of 90+ days past due for all portfolios (includes 
UTP criteria in line with internal policy)
EAD
– Cannot be lower than current balance
– Amortisation captured for term products
– Future drawdown captured for revolving products
LGD
– Downturn LGD (consistent with losses we would expect to suffer 
during a severe but plausible economic downturn)
– Regulatory floors may apply to mitigate risk of underestimating 
downturn LGD due to lack of historical data 
– Discounted using appropriate index (minimum 9%)
– All collection costs included
– LGD based on recent portfolio performance data and includes the 
expected impact of future economic conditions such as change in 
the value of collateral
– No floors applied, discounted using the original effective interest rate
– Only costs associated with selling collateral and certain third-party 
costs are included
Other
– Discounted back from point of default to balance sheet date
 
While 12-month PDs are recalibrated from IRB models where possible, the lifetime PDs are determined by projecting the 12-month PD using a 
term structure. For the wholesale methodology, the lifetime PD also takes into account credit migration, i.e. a customer migrating through the 
CRR bands over its life.
The ECL for wholesale stage 3 is determined primarily on an individual basis using a discounted cash flow (‘DCF’) methodology. The expected 
future cash flows are based on estimates as of the reporting date, reflecting reasonable and supportable assumptions and projections of future 
recoveries and expected future receipts of interest. 
Collateral is taken into account if it is likely that the recovery of the outstanding amount will include realisation of collateral based on its 
estimated fair value of collateral at the time of expected realisation, less costs for obtaining and selling the collateral. 
The cash flows are discounted at a reasonable approximation of the original effective interest rate. For significant cases, cash flows under up to 
four different scenarios are probability-weighted by reference to the status of the borrower, economic scenarios applied more generally by the 
Group and judgement in relation to the likelihood of the work-out strategy succeeding or receivership being required. For less significant cases 
where an individual assessment is undertaken, the effect of different economic scenarios and work-out strategies results in an ECL calculation 
based on a most likely outcome which is adjusted to capture losses resulting from less likely but possible outcomes. For certain less significant 
cases, the bank may use an LGD-based modelled approach to ECL assessment, which factors in a range of economic scenarios.
Period over which ECL is measured
Expected credit loss is measured from the initial recognition of the financial asset. The maximum period considered when measuring ECL (be it 
12-month or lifetime ECL) is the maximum contractual period over which HSBC is exposed to credit risk. However, where the financial 
instrument includes both a drawn and undrawn commitment and the contractual ability to demand repayment and cancel the undrawn 
commitment does not serve to limit HSBC’s exposure to credit risk to the contractual notice period, the contractual period does not determine 
the maximum period considered. Instead, ECL is measured over the period HSBC remains exposed to credit risk that is not mitigated by credit 
risk management actions. This applies to retail overdrafts and credit cards, where the period is the average time taken for stage 2 exposures to 
default or close as performing accounts, determined on a portfolio basis and ranging from between two and six years. In addition, for these 
facilities it is not possible to identify the ECL on the loan commitment component separately from the financial asset component. As a result, 
the total ECL is recognised in the loss allowance for the financial asset unless the total ECL exceeds the gross carrying amount of the financial 
asset, in which case the ECL is recognised as a provision. For wholesale overdraft facilities, credit risk management actions are taken no less 
frequently than on an annual basis.
Forward-looking economic inputs
HSBC applies multiple forward-looking global economic scenarios determined with reference to external forecast distributions representative of 
its view of forecast economic conditions. This approach is considered sufficient to calculate unbiased expected credit losses in most economic 
environments. In certain economic environments, additional analysis may be necessary and may result in additional scenarios or adjustments, 
to reflect a range of possible economic outcomes sufficient for an unbiased estimate. The detailed methodology is disclosed in ‘Measurement 
uncertainty and sensitivity analysis of ECL estimates’ on page 147. 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
361
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Critical estimates and judgements
The calculation of the Group’s ECL under IFRS 9 requires the Group to make a number of judgements, assumptions and estimates. The most significant are set 
out below:
Judgements
Estimates
– Defining what is considered to be a significant increase in credit risk
– Determining the lifetime and point of initial recognition of overdrafts and credit cards
– Selecting and calibrating the PD, LGD and EAD models, which support the calculations, including 
making reasonable and supportable judgements about how models react to current and future 
economic conditions
– Selecting model inputs and economic forecasts, including determining whether sufficient and 
appropriately weighted economic forecasts are incorporated to calculate unbiased expected credit loss
– Making management adjustments to account for late-breaking events, model and data limitations and 
deficiencies, and expert credit judgements 
– Selecting applicable recovery strategies for certain wholesale credit-impaired loans
– The section ‘Measurement uncertainty and 
sensitivity analysis of ECL estimates’, marked as 
audited from page 147, sets out the assumptions 
used in determining ECL, and provides an indication 
of the sensitivity of the result to the application of 
different weightings being applied to different 
economic assumptions
 
(j)
Insurance contracts
A contract is classified as an insurance contract where the Group accepts significant insurance risk from another party by agreeing to 
compensate that party if it is adversely affected by a specified uncertain future event. An insurance contract may also transfer financial risk, but 
is accounted for as an insurance contract if the insurance risk is significant. In addition, the Group issues investment contracts with 
discretionary participation features ('DPF’), which are also accounted under IFRS 17 ’Insurance Contracts’. 
Aggregation of insurance contracts
Individual insurance contracts that are managed together and subject to similar risks are identified as a portfolio. Contracts that are managed 
together usually belong to the same product group, and have similar characteristics such as being subject to a similar pricing framework or 
similar product management, and are issued by the same legal entity. If a contract is exposed to more than one risk, the dominant risk of the 
contract is used to assess whether the contract features similar risks. Each portfolio is further separated by the contract’s expected profitability. 
The portfolios are split by their profitability into: (i) contracts that are onerous at initial recognition; (ii) contracts that at initial recognition have no 
significant possibility of becoming onerous subsequently; and (iii) the remaining contracts. These profitability groups are then divided by issue 
date, with most contracts the Group issues after the transition date being grouped into calendar quarter cohorts. For multi-currency groups of 
contracts, the Group considers its groups of contracts as being denominated in a single currency.
The measurement of the insurance contract liability is based on groups of insurance contracts as established at initial recognition, and will 
include fulfilment cash flows as well as the CSM representing the unearned profit. The Group’s accounting policy is to update the estimates 
used in the measurement on a year-to-date basis.
Fulfilment cash flows
The fulfilment cash flows comprise the following: 
Best estimates of future cash flows
The cash flows within the contract boundary of each contract in the Group include amounts expected to be collected from premiums and 
payouts for claims, benefits and expenses, and are projected using a range of scenarios and assumptions in an unbiased way based on the 
Group’s demographic and operating experience along with external mortality data where the Group’s own experience data is not sufficiently 
large in size to be credible.
Adjustment for the time value of money and financial risks associated with the future cash flows
The estimates of future cash flows are adjusted to reflect the time value of money (i.e. discounting) and the financial risks to derive an 
expected present value. The Group generally makes use of stochastic modelling techniques in the estimation for products with options and 
guarantees. 
A bottom-up approach is used to determine the discount rate to be applied to a given set of expected future cash flows. This is derived as the 
sum of the risk-free yield and an illiquidity premium. The risk-free yield is determined based on observable market data, where such markets 
are considered to be deep, liquid and transparent. When information is not available, management judgement is applied to determine the 
appropriate risk-free yield. Illiquidity premiums reflect the liquidity characteristics of the associated insurance contracts.
Risk adjustment for non-financial risk
The risk adjustment reflects the compensation required for bearing the uncertainty about the amount and timing of future cash flows that arises 
from non-financial risk. It is calculated as a 75th percentile level of stress over a one-year period. The level of the stress is determined with 
reference to external regulatory stresses and internal economic capital stresses.
For the main insurance manufacturing entity in these locations, the one-year 75th percentile level of stress corresponds to the following 
percentiles based on an ultimate view of risk over all future years:
–
Asia-Pacific (Hong Kong): 60th percentile (2023: 60th percentile).
–
Europe (France): 60th percentile (2023: 60th percentile).
–
Latin America (Mexico): 64th percentile (2023: 65th percentile).
The Group does not disaggregate changes in the risk adjustment between insurance service result (comprising insurance revenue and 
insurance service expense) and insurance finance income or expenses. All changes are included in the insurance service result. 
Notes on the financial statements
362
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Measurement models
The variable fee approach (‘VFA’) measurement model is used for most of the contracts issued by the Group, which is mandatory upon 
meeting the following eligibility criteria at inception: 
–
the contractual terms specify that the policyholder participates in a share of a clearly identified pool of underlying items;
–
the Group expects to pay to the policyholder a substantial share of the fair value returns on the underlying items. The Group considers that a 
substantial share is a majority of returns; and
–
the Group expects a substantial proportion of any change in the amounts to be paid to the policyholder to vary with the change in fair value 
of the underlying items. The Group considers that a substantial proportion is a majority proportion of change on a present value probabilityweighted average of all scenarios.
For some contracts measured under VFA, the other comprehensive income (‘OCI’) option is used. The OCI option is applied where the 
underlying items held by the Group are not accounted for at fair value through profit or loss. Under this option, only the amount that matches 
income or expenses recognised in profit or loss on underlying items is included in finance income or expenses for these insurance contracts, 
and hence results in the elimination of accounting mismatches. The remaining amount of finance income or expenses for these insurance 
contracts issued for the period is recognised in OCI. In addition, the risk mitigation option is used for a number of economic offsets against the 
instruments that meet specific requirements.
The remaining contracts issued and the reinsurance contracts held are accounted for under the general measurement model (‘GMM’).
CSM and coverage units
The CSM represents the unearned profit and results in no income or expense at initial recognition when the group of contracts is profitable. 
The CSM is adjusted at each subsequent reporting period for changes in fulfilment cash flows relating to future service (e.g. changes in noneconomic assumptions, including mortality and morbidity rates). For initial recognition of onerous groups of contracts and when groups of 
contracts become onerous subsequently, losses are recognised in insurance service expense immediately. 
For groups of contracts measured using the VFA, changes in the Group’s share of the underlying items, and economic experience and 
economic assumption changes adjust the CSM, whereas these changes do not adjust the CSM under the GMM, but are recognised in profit or 
loss as they arise. However, under the risk mitigation option for VFA contracts, the changes in the fulfilment cash flows and the changes in the 
Group’s share in the fair value return on underlying items that the instruments mitigate are not adjusted in CSM but recognised in profit or loss. 
The risk mitigating instruments are primarily reinsurance contracts held.
The CSM is systematically recognised in insurance revenue to reflect the insurance contract services provided, based on the coverage units of 
the group of contracts. Coverage units are determined by the quantity of benefits and the expected coverage period of the contracts.
The Group identifies the quantity of the benefits provided as follows:
–
Insurance coverage: This is based on the expected net policyholder insurance benefit at each period after allowance for decrements, where 
net policyholder insurance benefit refers to the amount of sum assured less the fund value or surrender value.
–
Investment services (including both investment-return service and investment-related service): This is based on a constant measure basis 
which reflects the provision of access for the policyholder to the facility.
For contracts that provide both insurance coverage and investment services, coverage units are weighted according to the expected present 
value of the future cash outflows for each service. 
Insurance service result
Insurance revenue reflects the consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in exchange for the provision of coverage and other insurance 
contract services (excluding any investment components). Insurance service expenses comprise the incurred claims and other incurred insurance 
service expenses (excluding any investment components), and losses on onerous groups of contracts and reversals of such losses.
Insurance finance income and expenses
Insurance finance income and expenses comprise the change in the carrying amount of the group of insurance contracts arising from the 
effects of the time value of money, financial risk and changes therein. For VFA contracts, changes in the fair value of underlying items 
(excluding additions and withdrawals) are recognised in insurance finance income or expenses.
(k) Employee compensation and benefits
Share-based payments
HSBC enters into both equity-settled and cash-settled share-based payment arrangements with its employees as compensation for the 
provision of their services.
The vesting period for these schemes may commence before the legal grant date if the employees have started to render services in respect 
of the award before the legal grant date, where there is a shared understanding of the terms and conditions of the arrangement. Expenses are 
recognised when the employee starts to render service to which the award relates.
Cancellations result from the failure to meet a non-vesting condition during the vesting period, and are treated as an acceleration of vesting 
recognised immediately in the income statement. Failure to meet a vesting condition by the employee is not treated as a cancellation, and the 
amount of expense recognised for the award is adjusted to reflect the number of awards expected to vest. 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
363
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Post-employment benefit plans
HSBC operates a number of pension schemes including defined benefit, defined contribution and other post-employment benefit schemes.
Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged as an expense as the employees render service.
Defined benefit pension obligations are calculated using the projected unit credit method. The net charge to the income statement mainly 
comprises the service cost and the net interest on the net defined benefit asset or liability, and is presented in operating expenses. 
Remeasurements of the net defined benefit asset or liability, which comprise actuarial gains and losses, return on plan assets (excluding 
interest) and the effect of the asset ceiling (if any, excluding interest), are recognised immediately in other comprehensive income. The net 
defined benefit asset or liability represents the present value of defined benefit obligations reduced by the fair value of plan assets (see Note 
1.2(c)), after applying the asset ceiling test, where the net defined benefit surplus is limited to the present value of available refunds and 
reductions in future contributions to the plan.
The costs of obligations arising from other post-employment plans are accounted for on the same basis as defined benefit pension plans.
Critical estimates and judgements
The most significant critical estimates relate to the determination of key assumptions applied in calculating the defined benefit pension obligation for the principal 
plan.
Judgements
Estimates
– A range of assumptions could be applied, and different assumptions could 
significantly alter the defined benefit obligation and the amounts 
recognised in profit or loss or OCI.
– The calculation of the defined benefit pension obligation includes 
assumptions with regard to the discount rate, inflation rate, pension 
payments and deferred pensions, pay and mortality. Management 
determines these assumptions in consultation with the plan’s actuaries.
– Key assumptions used in calculating the defined benefit pension 
obligation for the principal plan and the sensitivity of the calculation to 
different assumptions are described in Note 5.
 
(l)
Tax
Income tax comprises current tax and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to 
items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case the tax is recognised in the same statement as the related 
item appears.
Current tax is the tax expected to be payable on the taxable profit for the year and on any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous 
years. HSBC provides for potential current tax liabilities that may arise on the basis of the amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. 
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet, and the 
amounts attributed to such assets and liabilities for tax purposes. Deferred tax is calculated using the tax rates expected to apply in the periods 
in which the assets will be realised or the liabilities settled.
In assessing the probability and sufficiency of future taxable profit, management considers the availability of evidence to support the 
recognition of deferred tax assets, taking into account the inherent risks in long-term forecasting, including climate change-related, and drivers 
of recent history of tax losses where applicable. Management also considers the future reversal of existing taxable temporary differences and 
tax planning strategies, including corporate reorganisations. 
Current and deferred tax are calculated based on tax rates and laws enacted, or substantively enacted, by the balance sheet date.
Critical estimates and judgements
The recognition of deferred tax assets depends on judgements and estimates.
Judgements
Estimates
– Specific judgements supporting deferred tax assets are described in Note 7.
– The recognition of deferred tax assets is sensitive to estimates of future 
cash flows projected for periods for which detailed forecasts are available 
and to assumptions regarding the long-term pattern of cash flows 
thereafter, on which forecasts of future taxable profit are based, and 
which affect the expected recovery periods and the pattern of utilisation 
of tax losses and tax credits. See Note 7 for further detail. 
 
The Group does not consider there to be a significant risk of a material adjustment to the carrying amount of deferred tax assets in the next 
financial year, but does consider this to be an area that is inherently judgemental.
(m) Provisions, contingent liabilities and guarantees
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle a present legal or constructive 
obligation that has arisen as a result of past events and for which a reliable estimate can be made.
Notes on the financial statements
364
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Critical estimates and judgements
The recognition and measurement of provisions requires the Group to make a number of judgements, assumptions and estimates. The most significant are set out 
below:
Judgements
Estimates
– Determining whether a present obligation exists. Professional advice is taken on 
the assessment of litigation and similar obligations.
– Provisions for legal proceedings and regulatory matters typically require a higher 
degree of judgement than other types of provisions. When matters are at an 
early stage, accounting judgements can be difficult because of the high degree of 
uncertainty associated with determining whether a present obligation exists, and 
estimating the probability and amount of any outflows that may arise. As matters 
progress, management and legal advisers evaluate on an ongoing basis whether 
provisions should be recognised, revising previous estimates as appropriate. At 
more advanced stages, it is typically easier to make estimates around a better 
defined set of possible outcomes.
– Provisions for legal proceedings and regulatory matters remain very 
sensitive to the assumptions used in the estimate. There could be a wider 
range of possible outcomes for any pending legal proceedings, 
investigations or inquiries. As a result it is often not practicable to quantify 
a range of possible outcomes for individual matters. It is also not 
practicable to meaningfully quantify ranges of potential outcomes in 
aggregate for these types of provisions because of the diverse nature and 
circumstances of such matters and the wide range of uncertainties 
involved.
Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees 
Contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities, which include certain guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security, and contingent liabilities related to 
legal proceedings or regulatory matters, are not recognised in the financial statements but are disclosed unless the probability of settlement is 
remote.
Financial guarantee contracts
Liabilities under financial guarantee contracts that are not classified as insurance contracts are recorded initially at their fair value, which is 
generally the fee received or present value of the fee receivable. 
(n) Impairment of non-financial assets
Software under development is tested for impairment at least annually. Other non-financial assets are property, plant and equipment, intangible 
assets (excluding goodwill) and right-of-use assets. They are tested for impairment at the individual asset level when there is indication of 
impairment at that level, or at the CGU level for assets that do not have a recoverable amount at the individual asset level. In addition, 
impairment is also tested at the CGU level when there is indication of impairment at that level. For this purpose, CGUs are considered to be the 
principal operating legal entities divided by global business. Impairment testing compares the carrying amount of the non-financial asset or CGU 
with its recoverable amount, which is the higher of the fair value less costs of disposal or the value in use. The carrying amount of a CGU 
comprises the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities, including non-financial assets that are directly attributable to it and non-financial 
assets that can be allocated to it on a reasonable and consistent basis. Non-financial assets that cannot be allocated to an individual CGU are 
tested for impairment at an appropriate grouping of CGUs. The recoverable amount of the CGU is the higher of the fair value less costs of 
disposal of the CGU, which is determined by independent and qualified valuers where relevant, and the value in use, which is calculated based 
on appropriate inputs (see Note 21).
When the recoverable amount of a CGU is less than its carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement to the 
extent that the impairment can be allocated on a pro-rata basis to the non-financial assets by reducing their carrying amounts to the higher of 
their respective individual recoverable amount or nil. Impairment is not allocated to the financial assets in a CGU.
Impairment losses recognised in prior periods for non-financial assets are reversed when there has been a change in the estimate used to 
determine the recoverable amount. The impairment loss is reversed to the extent that the carrying amount of the non-financial assets would 
not exceed the amount that would have been determined (net of amortisation or depreciation) had no impairment loss been recognised in prior 
periods.
Critical estimates and judgements
The review of goodwill and other non-financial assets for impairment reflects management’s best estimate of the future cash flows of the CGUs and the rates 
used to discount these cash flows, both of which are subject to uncertain factors as described in the ‘Critical estimates and judgements’ in Note 1.2(a). 
 
The Group does not consider there to be a significant risk of a material adjustment to the carrying amount of goodwill and non-financial assets 
in the next financial year, but does consider this to be an area that is inherently judgemental.
(o) Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale
HSBC classifies non-current assets or disposal groups (including assets and liabilities) as held for sale when their carrying amounts will be 
recovered principally through sale rather than through continuing use. To be classified as held for sale, the non-current asset or disposal group 
must be available for immediate sale in its present condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for sales of such assets (or 
disposal groups), and the sale must be highly probable. For a sale to be highly probable, the appropriate level of management must be 
committed to a plan to sell the asset (or disposal group) and an active programme to locate a buyer and complete the plan must have been 
initiated. Further, the asset (or disposal group) must be actively marketed for sale at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value. 
In addition, the sale should be expected to qualify as a completed sale within one year from the date of classification and actions required to 
complete the plan should indicate that it is unlikely that significant changes to the plan will be made or that the plan will be withdrawn. 
Held for sale assets and disposal groups are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell except for those 
assets and liabilities that are not within the scope of the measurement requirements of IFRS 5. If the carrying amount of the non-current asset 
(or disposal group) is greater than the fair value less costs to sell, an impairment loss for any initial or subsequent write-down of the asset or 
disposal group to fair value less costs to sell is recognised. Any such impairment loss is first allocated against the non-current assets that are in 
scope of IFRS 5 for measurement. This first reduces the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the disposal group, and then to the other 
non-current assets of the disposal group pro rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the disposal group. Thereafter, any 
impairment loss in excess of the carrying amount of the non-current assets in scope of IFRS 5 for measurement is recognised against the total 
assets of the disposal group. 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
365
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

2 Net fee income
Net fee income by global business
2024
Wealth and
Personal
Banking
Commercial 
Banking
Global 
Banking and 
Markets
Corporate 
Centre
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Funds under management
 
1,864 
78 
497 
— 
2,439 
Cards
 
2,448 
351 
44 
— 
2,843 
Credit facilities
 
85 
722 
621 
— 
1,428 
Broking income
 
561 
13 
716 
— 
1,290 
Account services
 
348 
791 
360 
— 
1,499 
Unit trusts
 
1,060 
10 
1 
— 
1,071 
Underwriting
 
— 
8 
683 
— 
691 
Global custody
 
120 
7 
704 
— 
831 
Remittances
 
77 
387 
361 
— 
825 
Imports/exports
 
— 
463 
182 
— 
645 
Insurance agency commission
 
329 
18 
— 
— 
347 
Other
 
1,551 
1,249 
2,725 
(3,168) 
2,357 
Fee income
 
8,443 
4,097 
6,894 
(3,168) 
16,266 
Less: fee expense
 
(2,513) 
(245) 
(4,348) 
3,141 
(3,965) 
Net fee income 
 
5,930 
3,852 
2,546 
(27) 
12,301 
 
2023
Wealth and
Personal 
Banking
Commercial
Banking
Global
Banking and
Markets
Corporate
Centre
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Funds under management
 
1,763 
71 
539 
— 
2,373 
Cards
 
2,385 
353 
38 
— 
2,776 
Credit facilities
 
103 
856 
615 
— 
1,574 
Broking income
 
463 
22 
592 
— 
1,077 
Account services
 
402 
788 
347 
— 
1,537 
Unit trusts
 
727 
10 
1 
— 
738 
Underwriting
 
— 
3 
583 
— 
586 
Global custody
 
128 
6 
730 
— 
864 
Remittances
 
86 
389 
347 
1 
823 
Imports/exports
 
— 
470 
154 
— 
624 
Insurance agency commission
 
280 
18 
— 
— 
298 
Other
 
1,433 
1,161 
2,458 
(2,706) 
2,346 
Fee income
 
7,770 
4,147 
6,404 
(2,705) 
15,616 
Less: fee expense
 
(2,416) 
(210) 
(3,858) 
2,713 
(3,771) 
Net fee income
 
5,354 
3,937 
2,546 
8 
11,845 
 
2022
Wealth and
Personal 
Banking
Commercial
Banking
Global
Banking and
Markets
Corporate
Centre
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Funds under management
 
1,765 
107 
500 
(12) 
2,360 
Cards
 
2,146 
313 
32 
— 
2,491 
Credit facilities
 
100 
783 
591 
— 
1,474 
Broking income
 
576 
40 
635 
— 
1,251 
Account services
 
337 
730 
344 
1 
1,412 
Unit trusts
 
682 
14 
— 
— 
696 
Underwriting
 
1 
2 
443 
(5) 
441 
Global custody
 
140 
19 
762 
— 
921 
Remittances
 
72 
380 
346 
1 
799 
Imports/exports
 
— 
493 
141 
— 
634 
Insurance agency commission
 
283 
16 
1 
— 
300 
Other
 
1,330 
1,102 
2,376 
(2,463) 
2,345 
Fee income
 
7,432 
3,999 
6,171 
(2,478) 
15,124 
Less: fee expense
 
(2,128) 
(212) 
(3,459) 
2,445 
(3,354) 
Net fee income
 
5,304 
3,787 
2,712 
(33) 
11,770 
 
 
Net fee income included $6,816m of fees earned on financial assets that were not at fair value through profit or loss, other than amounts 
included in determining the effective interest rate (2023: $6,971m; 2022: $6,410m), $1,951m of fees payable on financial liabilities that were 
not at fair value through profit or loss, other than amounts included in determining the effective interest rate (2023: $1,872m; 2022: $1,613m), 
$3,480m of fees earned on trust and other fiduciary activities (2023: $3,452m; 2022: $3,492m) and $401m of fees payable relating to trust and 
other fiduciary activities (2023: $333m; 2022: $370m).
Notes on the financial statements
366
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

3 Net income/(expense) from financial instruments measured at fair value 
through profit or loss
 
2024
2023
2022
$m
$m
$m
Net income/(expense) arising on:
Net trading activities
 
23,186 
20,391 
2,372 
Other instruments managed on a fair value basis
 
(2,070) 
(3,730) 
7,906 
Net income from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value basis
 
21,116 
16,661 
10,278 
Financial assets held to meet liabilities under insurance and investment contracts
 
6,210 
8,086 
(14,392) 
Liabilities to customers under investment contracts
 
(309) 
(199) 
561 
Net income/(expense) from assets and liabilities of insurance businesses, including related 
derivatives, measured at fair value through profit or loss
 
5,901 
7,887 
(13,831) 
 
HSBC Holdings
2024
2023
2022
$m
$m
$m
Net income/(expense) arising on:
Net trading activities
 
984 
(546) 
2,094 
Other instruments managed on a fair value basis
 
1,915 
1,609 
35 
Net income from financial instruments held for trading or managed on a fair value basis
 
2,899 
1,063 
2,129 
Derivatives managed in conjunction with HSBC Holdings-issued debt securities
 
93 
426 
(1,529) 
Other changes in fair value
 
(218) 
(1,894) 
3,673 
Changes in fair value of designated debt and related derivatives
 
(125) 
(1,468) 
2,144 
Changes in fair value of other financial instruments mandatorily measured at fair value through profit 
or loss
 
2,086 
3,692 
(2,409) 
Year ended 31 Dec
 
4,860 
3,287 
1,864 
 
4
Insurance business
Insurance service result
Year ended 31 Dec 2024
Year ended 31 Dec 2023
Life direct 
participating 
and investment 
DPF contracts1
Life other 
contracts2
Total
Life direct 
participating and 
investment DPF 
contracts1
Life other 
contracts2
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Insurance revenue
Amounts relating to changes in liabilities for remaining coverage
 
1,890 
566 
2,456 
1,626 
470 
2,096 
– Contractual service margin recognised for services provided
 
1,143 
188 
1,331 
975 
151 
1,126 
– Change in risk adjustment for non-financial risk for risk expired
 
46 
20 
66 
21 
15 
36 
– Expected incurred claims and other insurance service expenses
 
698 
358 
1,056 
594 
304 
898 
– Other
 
3 
— 
3 
36 
— 
36 
Recovery of insurance acquisition cash flows
 
195 
101 
296 
109 
54 
163 
Total insurance revenue
 
2,085 
667 
2,752 
1,735 
524 
2,259 
Insurance service expenses
Incurred claims and other insurance service expenses
 
(616) 
(428) 
(1,044) 
(615) 
(292) 
(907) 
Losses and reversal of losses on onerous contracts
 
(50) 
(73) 
(123) 
(32) 
(77) 
(109) 
Amortisation of insurance acquisition cash flows
 
(195) 
(101) 
(296) 
(109) 
(54) 
(163) 
Adjustments to liabilities for incurred claims
 
(6) 
27 
21 
(1) 
(1) 
(2) 
Total insurance service expenses
 
(867) 
(575) 
(1,442) 
(757) 
(424) 
(1,181) 
Total insurance service result
 
1,218 
92 
1,310 
978 
100 
1,078 
1 ‘Life direct participating and investment DPF contracts’ are substantially measured under the variable fee approach measurement model.
2 ‘Life other contracts’ are measured under the general measurement model.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
367
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Net investment return
Year ended 31 Dec 2024
Year ended 31 Dec 2023
Life direct 
participating 
and 
investment 
DPF contracts
Life other 
contracts
Total
Life direct 
participating
and 
investment 
DPF contracts
Life other 
contracts
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Investment return
Amounts recognised in profit or loss1
 
5,644 
273 
5,917 
7,663 
214 
7,877 
Amounts recognised in OCI2
 
185 
— 
185 
493 
— 
493 
Total investment return (memorandum)
 
5,829 
273 
6,102 
8,156 
214 
8,370 
Net finance expense
Changes in fair value of underlying items of direct participating contracts
 
(5,805) 
— 
(5,805) 
(7,995) 
— 
(7,995) 
Effect of risk mitigation option
 
44 
— 
44 
(35) 
— 
(35) 
Interest accreted
 
— 
(110) 
(110) 
— 
(127) 
(127) 
Effect of changes in interest rates and other financial assumptions
 
— 
(298) 
(298) 
(12) 
(121) 
(133) 
Effect of measuring changes in estimates at current rates and adjusting 
the CSM at rates on initial recognition
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(10) 
(10) 
Total net finance expense from insurance contracts
 
(5,761) 
(408) 
(6,169) 
(8,042) 
(258) 
(8,300) 
Represented by:
Amounts recognised in profit or loss
 
(5,570) 
(408) 
(5,978) 
(7,551) 
(258) 
(7,809) 
Amounts recognised in OCI
 
(191) 
— 
(191) 
(491) 
— 
(491) 
Total net investment return
 
68 
(135) 
(67) 
114 
(44) 
70 
Represented by:
Amounts recognised in profit or loss
 
74 
(135) 
(61) 
112 
(44) 
68 
Amounts recognised in OCI
 
(6) 
— 
(6) 
2 
— 
2 
1 Total Group ‘Net income/(expense) from assets and liabilities of insurance business, including related derivatives, measured at fair value through profit or loss’ of 
$5,901m gain (2023: $7,886m gain) includes returns on assets and liabilities supporting insurance policies of $5,685m (2023: $7,627m loss) and on shareholder 
assets of $216m (2023: $259m gain). Investment returns of $5,917m (2023: $7,877m gain) include gains of $5,685m (2023: $7,627m gain) on underlying assets 
supporting insurance liabilities reported in ‘Net income/(expense) from assets and liabilities of insurance businesses, including related derivatives, measured at 
fair value through profit or loss’, $235m gains (2023: $257m gain) reported in ‘Net interest income’ and $3m loss (2023: $7m loss) reported in ‘Other operating 
income’. 
2 ‘Amounts recognised in OCI’ insurance investment income comprises of fair value gains of $185m (2023: $497m gain) and expected credit (recoveries)/losses 
of nil (2023: $4m loss). The Group statement of comprehensive income statement ‘Debt instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income – fair 
value gains/(losses)’ gain of $41m (2023: $2,381m gain) includes insurance investment income recognised in OCI of $185m gain (2023: $497m gain) and ‘Debt 
instruments at fair value through other comprehensive income - expected credit (recoveries)/losses recognised in the income statement’ recovery of $6m (2023: 
$59m loss) includes insurance expected credit (recoveries)/losses recognised in OCI of nil (2023: $4m loss). 
Reconciliation of amounts included in other comprehensive income for financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive 
income – assets supporting contracts measured under the modified retrospective approach
2024
2023
$m
$m
Balance at 1 Jan
 
(670) 
(973) 
Net change in fair value
 
(153) 
451 
Net amount reclassified to profit or loss
 
3 
(6) 
Related income tax
 
39 
(115) 
Foreign exchange and other
 
45 
(27) 
Balance at 31 Dec
 
(736) 
(670) 
Notes on the financial statements
368
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Movements in carrying amounts of insurance contracts – analysis by remaining coverage and incurred claims
Year ended 31 Dec 2024
Life direct participating and investment DPF 
contracts
Life other contracts
Liabilities for remaining 
coverage:
Liabilities for remaining 
coverage:
Excluding 
loss 
component
Loss 
component
Incurred 
claims
Total
Excluding 
loss 
component
Loss 
component
Incurred 
claims
Total
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Opening assets
 
(15) 
1 
1 
(13) 
(279) 
(16) 
56 
(239) 
(252) 
Opening liabilities
 
116,546 
121 
370 117,037 
3,400 
191 
223 
3,814 120,851 
Net opening balance at 1 Jan 2024
 
116,531 
122 
371 117,024 
3,121 
175 
279 
3,575 120,599 
Changes in the consolidated income 
statement and statement of 
comprehensive income
Insurance revenue
Contracts under the fair value approach1
 
(715) 
— 
— 
(715) 
(217) 
— 
— 
(217) 
(932) 
Contracts under the modified 
retrospective approach
 
(141) 
— 
— 
(141) 
(18) 
— 
— 
(18) 
(159) 
Other contracts2
 
(1,229) 
— 
— 
(1,229) 
(432) 
— 
— 
(432) 
(1,661) 
Total insurance revenue
 
(2,085) 
— 
— 
(2,085) 
(667) 
— 
— 
(667) 
(2,752) 
Insurance service expenses
Incurred claims and other insurance 
service expenses
 
— 
(7) 
623 
616 
— 
(49) 
477 
428 
1,044 
Amortisation of insurance acquisition 
cash flows
 
195 
— 
— 
195 
101 
— 
— 
101 
296 
Losses and reversal of losses on 
onerous contracts
 
— 
50 
— 
50 
— 
73 
— 
73 
123 
Adjustments to liabilities for incurred 
claims
 
— 
— 
6 
6 
— 
— 
(27) 
(27) 
(21) 
Total insurance service expenses
 
195 
43 
629 
867 
101 
24 
450 
575 
1,442 
Investment components
 
(8,284) 
— 
8,284 
— 
(1,058) 
— 
1,058 
— 
— 
Insurance service result
 
(10,174) 
43 
8,913 
(1,218) 
(1,624) 
24 
1,508 
(92) 
(1,310) 
Net finance expense from insurance 
contracts3
 
5,720 
41 
— 
5,761 
405 
3 
— 
408 
6,169 
Other movements recognised in the 
statement of profit or loss
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Effect of movements in exchange rates
 
(1,162) 
(5) 
(9) 
(1,176) 
(76) 
1 
(24) 
(99) 
(1,275) 
Total changes in the consolidated 
income statement and statement of 
comprehensive income
 
(5,616) 
79 
8,904 
3,367 
(1,295) 
28 
1,484 
217 
3,584 
Cash flows
Premiums received
 
16,442 
— 
— 
16,442 
1,950 
— 
— 
1,950 
18,392 
Claims, other insurance service 
expenses paid and other cash flows
 
2 
— 
(9,020) 
(9,018) 
2 
— 
(1,508) 
(1,506) (10,524) 
Insurance acquisition cash flows
 
(835) 
— 
— 
(835) 
(260) 
— 
— 
(260) 
(1,095) 
Total cash flows
 
15,609 
— 
(9,020) 
6,589 
1,692 
— 
(1,508) 
184 
6,773 
Other movements4
 
(23,495) 
(54) 
(31) (23,580) 
53 
8 
60 
121 (23,459) 
Net closing balance at 31 Dec 2024
 
103,029 
147 
224 103,400 
3,571 
211 
315 
4,097 107,497 
Closing assets
 
(16) 
1 
1 
(14) 
(177) 
(13) 
72 
(118) 
(132) 
Closing liabilities
 
103,045 
146 
223 103,414 
3,748 
224 
243 
4,215 107,629 
Net closing balance at 31 Dec 2024
 
103,029 
147 
224 103,400 
3,571 
211 
315 
4,097 107,497 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
369
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Movements in carrying amounts of insurance contracts – analysis by remaining coverage and incurred claims (continued)
Year ended 31 Dec 2023
Life direct participating and investment DPF 
contracts
Life other contracts
Liabilities for remaining 
coverage:
Liabilities for remaining 
coverage:
Excluding 
loss 
component
Loss 
component
Incurred 
claims
Total
Excluding 
loss 
component
Loss 
component
Incurred 
claims
Total
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Opening assets
 
(5) 
— 
— 
(5) 
(187) 
21 
35 
(131) 
(136) 
Opening liabilities
 
104,676 
114 
355 105,145 
3,359 
109 
203 
3,671 108,816 
Net opening balance at 1 Jan 2023
 
104,671 
114 
355 105,140 
3,172 
130 
238 
3,540 108,680 
Changes in the consolidated income 
statement and statement of comprehensive 
income
Insurance revenue
Contracts under the fair value approach1
 
(508) 
— 
— 
(508) 
(196) 
— 
— 
(196) 
(704) 
Contracts under the modified retrospective 
approach
 
(148) 
— 
— 
(148) 
(22) 
— 
— 
(22) 
(170) 
Other contracts2
 
(1,079) 
— 
— 
(1,079) 
(306) 
— 
— 
(306) 
(1,385) 
Total insurance revenue
 
(1,735) 
— 
— 
(1,735) 
(524) 
— 
— 
(524) 
(2,259) 
Insurance service expenses
Incurred claims and other insurance service 
expenses
 
— 
(6) 
621 
615 
— 
(24) 
316 
292 
907 
Amortisation of insurance acquisition cash 
flows
 
109 
— 
— 
109 
54 
— 
— 
54 
163 
Losses and reversal of losses on onerous 
contracts
 
— 
32 
— 
32 
— 
77 
— 
77 
109 
Adjustments to liabilities for incurred claims
 
— 
— 
1 
1 
— 
— 
1 
1 
2 
Total insurance service expenses
 
109 
26 
622 
757 
54 
53 
317 
424 
1,181 
Investment components
 
(8,104) 
— 
8,104 
— 
(818) 
— 
818 
— 
— 
Insurance service result
 
(9,730) 
26 
8,726 
(978) 
(1,288) 
53 
1,135 
(100) 
(1,078) 
Net finance expense from insurance 
contracts3
 
8,042 
— 
— 
8,042 
254 
3 
1 
258 
8,300 
Other movements recognised in the 
statement of profit or loss
 
513 
(5) 
(214) 
294 
(8) 
4 
(13) 
(17) 
277 
Effect of movements in exchange rates
 
942 
1 
6 
949 
25 
(2) 
8 
31 
980 
Total changes in the consolidated income 
statement and statement of comprehensive 
income
 
(233) 
22 
8,518 
8,307 
(1,017) 
58 
1,131 
172 
8,479 
Cash flows
Premiums received
 
12,616 
— 
— 
12,616 
1,256 
— 
— 
1,256 
13,872 
Claims, other insurance service expenses 
paid and other cash flows
 
(15) 
— 
(8,502) 
(8,517) 
1 
— 
(1,112) 
(1,111) 
(9,628) 
Insurance acquisition cash flows
 
(522) 
— 
— 
(522) 
(282) 
— 
— 
(282) 
(804) 
Total cash flows
 
12,079 
— 
(8,502) 
3,577 
975 
— 
(1,112) 
(137) 
3,440 
Acquisition of subsidiaries and other 
movements
 
14 
(14) 
— 
— 
(9) 
(13) 
22 
— 
— 
Net closing balance at 31 Dec 2023
 
116,531 
122 
371 117,024 
3,121 
175 
279 
3,575 120,599 
Closing assets
 
(15) 
1 
1 
(13) 
(279) 
(16) 
56 
(239) 
(252) 
Closing liabilities
 
116,546 
121 
370 117,037 
3,400 
191 
223 
3,814 120,851 
Net closing balance at 31 Dec 2023
 
116,531 
122 
371 117,024 
3,121 
175 
279 
3,575 120,599 
1 On transition to IFRS 17 the Group applied the full retrospective approach to new business written from 2018 at the earliest. Where applying the full 
retrospective approach was impracticable, the Group primarily applied the fair value approach.
2 ‘Other contracts’ are those contracts measured by applying IFRS 17 from inception of the contracts. These include contracts measured under the full 
retrospective approach at transition and contracts incepted after transition. 
3 ‘Net finance expense from insurance contracts’ expense of $6,169m (2023: $8,300m expense) comprises expense of $5,978m (2023: $7,809m expense) 
recognised in the income statement and expense of $191m (2023: $491m expense) recognised in other comprehensive income.
4 The ‘Other movements‘ reduction of $23,459m in insurance contracts includes $21,811m in respect of our French insurance business, classified as held for sale 
at 31 December 2024. Further details are provided on page 412.
Notes on the financial statements
370
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Movements in carrying amounts of insurance contracts – analysis by measurement component
Year ended 31 Dec 2024
Life direct participating and investment DPF contracts
Life other contracts
Estimates 
of present 
value of 
future cash 
flows and 
risk 
adjustment
Contractual service margin
Estimates 
of present 
value of 
future cash 
flows and 
risk 
adjustment
Contractual service margin
Contracts 
under the 
fair value 
approach
1
Contracts 
under the 
modified 
retrospective 
approach
Other 
contracts
2
Total
Contracts 
under the 
fair value 
approach1
Contracts 
under the 
modified 
retrospective 
approach 
Other 
contracts
2 Total
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Opening assets
 
(30) 
3 
— 
14 
(13) 
(339) 
36 
— 
64 (239) 
(252) 
Opening liabilities
 
106,440 
4,679 
715 
5,203 
117,037 
3,113 
361 
19 
321 
3,814 
120,851 
Net opening balance at 
1 Jan 2024
 
106,410 
4,682 
715 
5,217 
117,024 
2,774 
397 
19 
385 
3,575 
120,599 
Changes in the 
consolidated income 
statement and 
statement of 
comprehensive income
Changes that relate to 
current services
Contractual service 
margin recognised for 
services provided
 
— 
(488) 
(59) 
(596) (1,143) 
— 
(77) 
(6) 
(105) (188) (1,331) 
Change in risk adjustment 
for non-financial risk 
expired
 
(46) 
— 
— 
— 
(46) 
(20) 
— 
— 
— 
(20) 
(66) 
Experience adjustments
 
(82) 
— 
— 
— 
(82) 
70 
— 
— 
— 
70 
(12) 
Other movements 
recognised in insurance 
service result
 
— 
52 
— 
(55) 
(3) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(3) 
Changes that relate to 
future services
Contracts initially 
recognised in the year
 
(2,384) 
— 
— 
2,400 
16 
(201) 
— 
— 
220 
19 
35 
Changes in estimates that 
adjust the contractual 
service margin3
 
(914) 
229 
(6) 
691 
— 
(7) 
30 
7 
(30) 
— 
— 
Changes in estimates that 
result in losses and 
reversal of losses on 
onerous contracts
 
34 
— 
— 
— 
34 
54 
— 
— 
— 
54 
88 
Changes that relate to 
past services
Adjustments to liabilities 
for incurred claims
 
6 
— 
— 
— 
6 
(27) 
— 
— 
— 
(27) 
(21) 
Insurance service result
 
(3,386) 
(207) 
(65) 
2,440 (1,218) 
(131) 
(47) 
1 
85 
(92) (1,310) 
Net finance expense from 
insurance contracts4
 
5,761 
— 
— 
— 5,761 
380 
12 
— 
16 408 6,169 
Other movements 
recognised in the 
statement of profit or loss
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Effect of movements in 
exchange rates
 
(1,167) 
51 
(24) 
(36) (1,176) 
(50) 
(11) 
— 
(38) 
(99) (1,275) 
Total changes in the 
consolidated income 
statement and 
statement of 
comprehensive income
 
1,208 
(156) 
(89) 
2,404 3,367 
199 
(46) 
1 
63 217 3,584 
Cash flows
Premiums received 
 
16,442 
— 
— 
— 16,442 
1,950 
— 
— 
— 
1,950 18,392 
Claims, other insurance 
service expenses paid and 
other cash flows
 
(9,018) 
— 
— 
— (9,018) 
(1,506) 
— 
— 
— 
(1,506) 
(10,524) 
Insurance acquisition cash 
flows
 
(835) 
— 
— 
— 
(835) 
(260) 
— 
— 
— (260) (1,095) 
Total cash flows
 
6,589 
— 
— 
— 6,589 
184 
— 
— 
— 184 6,773 
Other movements5
 
(22,736) 
(23) 
(626) 
(195) 
(23,580) 
153 
2 
(20) 
(14) 121 
(23,459) 
Net closing balance at 
31 Dec 2024
 
91,471 
4,503 
— 
7,426 
103,400 
3,310 
353 
— 
434 
4,097 
107,497 
Closing assets
 
(27) 
3 
— 
10 
(14) 
(359) 
73 
— 
168 (118) 
(132) 
Closing liabilities
 
91,498 
4,500 
— 
7,416 
103,414 
3,669 
280 
— 
266 
4,215 
107,629 
Net closing balance at 
31 Dec 2024
 
91,471 
4,503 
— 
7,426 
103,400 
3,310 
353 
— 
434 
4,097 
107,497 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
371
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Movements in carrying amounts of insurance contracts – analysis by measurement component (continued)
Year ended 31 Dec 2023
Life direct participating and investment DPF contracts
Life other contracts
Estimates 
of present 
value of 
future cash 
flows and 
risk 
adjustment
Contractual service margin
Estimates 
of present 
value of 
future cash 
flows and 
risk 
adjustment
Contractual service margin
Contracts 
under the 
fair value 
approach1
Contracts 
under the 
modified 
retrospective 
approach
Other 
contracts
2
Total
Contracts 
under the 
fair value 
approach
1
Contracts 
under the 
modified 
retrospective 
approach 
Other 
contracts
2
Total
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Opening assets
 
(18) 
3 
— 
10 
(5) 
(308) 
86 
— 
91 (131) 
(136) 
Opening liabilities
 
96,174 
4,364 
792 
3,815 
105,145 
3,162 
325 
18 
166 3,671 
108,816 
Net opening balance at 1 Jan 
2023 
 
96,156 
4,367 
792 
3,825 
105,140 
2,854 
411 
18 
257 3,540 
108,680 
Changes in the consolidated 
income statement and 
statement of comprehensive 
income
Changes that relate to current 
services
Contractual service margin 
recognised for services provided
 
— 
(188) 
(70) 
(717) 
(975) 
— 
(69) 
(6) 
(76) (151) (1,126) 
Change in risk adjustment for 
non-financial risk expired
 
(21) 
— 
— 
— 
(21) 
(15) 
— 
— 
— 
(15) 
(36) 
Experience adjustments
 
21 
— 
— 
— 
21 
(12) 
— 
— 
— 
(12) 
9 
Other movements recognised in 
insurance service result
 
(36) 
— 
— 
— 
(36) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(36) 
Changes that relate to future 
services
Contracts initially recognised in 
the year
 
(1,606) 
— 
— 
1,619 
13 
(176) 
— 
— 
207 
31 
44 
Changes in estimates that adjust 
contractual service margin3
 
(771) 
368 
(33) 
436 
— 
21 
26 
6 
(53) 
— 
— 
Changes in estimates that result 
in losses and reversal of losses 
on onerous contracts
 
19 
— 
— 
— 
19 
46 
— 
— 
— 
46 
65 
Changes that relate to past 
services
Adjustments to liabilities for 
incurred claims
 
1 
— 
— 
— 
1 
1 
— 
— 
— 
1 
2 
Insurance service result
 
(2,393) 
180 
(103) 
1,338 
(978) 
(135) 
(43) 
— 
78 (100) (1,078) 
Net finance expense from 
insurance contracts4
 
8,042 
— 
— 
— 
8,042 
235 
11 
— 
12 
258 8,300 
Other movements recognised in 
the statement of profit or loss
 
145 
133 
(1) 
17 
294 
(43) 
6 
— 
20 
(17) 
277 
Effect of movements in 
exchange rates
 
883 
2 
27 
37 
949 
— 
12 
1 
18 
31 
980 
Total changes in the 
consolidated income statement 
and statement of 
comprehensive income
 
6,677 
315 
(77) 
1,392 
8,307 
57 
(14) 
1 
128 
172 8,479 
Cash flows
Premiums received 
 
12,616 
— 
— 
— 12,616 
1,256 
— 
— 
— 1,256 13,872 
Claims, other insurance service 
expenses paid and other cash 
flows
 
(8,517) 
— 
— 
— (8,517) 
(1,111) 
— 
— 
— 
(1,111) (9,628) 
Insurance acquisition cash flows
 
(522) 
— 
— 
— 
(522) 
(282) 
— 
— 
— (282) 
(804) 
Total cash flows
 
3,577 
— 
— 
— 
3,577 
(137) 
— 
— 
— (137) 3,440 
Other movements
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Net closing balance at 
31 Dec 2023 
 
106,410 
4,682 
715 
5,217 
117,024 
2,774 
397 
19 
385 3,575 
120,599 
Closing assets
 
(30) 
3 
— 
14 
(13) 
(339) 
36 
— 
64 (239) 
(252) 
Closing liabilities
 
106,440 
4,679 
715 
5,203 
117,037 
3,113 
361 
19 
321 3,814 
120,851 
Net closing balance at 
31 Dec 2023 
 
106,410 
4,682 
715 
5,217 
117,024 
2,774 
397 
19 
385 3,575 
120,599 
1 On transition to IFRS 17 the Group applied the full retrospective approach to new business written from 2018 at the earliest. Where applying the full 
retrospective approach was impracticable, the Group primarily applied the fair value approach.
2 ‘Other contracts' are those contracts measured by applying IFRS 17 from inception of the contracts. These include contracts measured under the full 
retrospective approach at transition and contracts incepted after transition. 
3 ‘Changes in estimates that adjust contractual service margin’ increase of $921m (2023: $750m increase) includes an increase of $651m (2023: $233m increase) 
from economic factors and an increase of $270m (2023: $517m increase) from non-economic factors.
4 ‘Net finance expense from insurance contracts’ expense of $6,169m (2023: $8,300m expense) comprises expense of $5,978m (2023: $7,809m expense) 
recognised in the income statement and expense of $191m (2023: $491m expense) recognised in other comprehensive income.
5 ‘Other movements‘ $23,459m reduction in insurance contracts includes $21,811m in respect of the classification of the France insurance business to held for 
sale at 31 December 2024. Further details are provided on page 412.
Notes on the financial statements
372
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Effect of contracts initially recognised in the year
Year ended 31 Dec 2024
Year ended 31 Dec 2023
Profitable 
contracts 
issued
Onerous 
contracts 
issued
Total
Profitable 
contracts 
issued
Onerous 
contracts 
issued
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Life direct participating and investment DPF contracts
Estimates of present value of cash outflows
 
16,878 
495 
17,373 
12,418 
215 
12,633 
– insurance acquisition cash flows
 
805 
38 
843 
602 
21 
623 
– claims and other insurance service expenses payable
 
16,073 
457 
16,530 
11,816 
194 
12,010 
Estimates of present value of cash inflows
 
(19,326) 
(481) 
(19,807) 
(14,074) 
(204) 
(14,278) 
Risk adjustment for non-financial risk
 
48 
2 
50 
37 
2 
39 
Contractual service margin
 
2,400 
— 
2,400 
1,619 
— 
1,619 
(Losses) recognised on initial recognition
 
— 
(16) 
(16) 
— 
(13) 
(13) 
Life other contracts
Estimates of present value of cash outflows
 
1,484 
476 
1,960 
1,116 
464 
1,580 
– insurance acquisition cash flows
 
125 
65 
190 
106 
50 
156 
– claims and other insurance service expenses payable
 
1,359 
411 
1,770 
1,010 
414 
1,424 
Estimates of present value of cash inflows
 
(1,731) 
(460) 
(2,191) 
(1,350) 
(438) 
(1,788) 
Risk adjustment for non-financial risk
 
27 
3 
30 
27 
5 
32 
Contractual service margin
 
220 
— 
220 
207 
— 
207 
(Losses) recognised on initial recognition
 
— 
(19) 
(19) 
— 
(31) 
(31) 
Present value of expected future cash flows of insurance contract liabilities and contractual service margin
Less 
than 1 
year
1–2 
years
2–3 
years
3–4 
years
4–5 
years
5–10 
years
10–20 
years
Over 20 
years
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
2024
Insurance liability future cash flows1
Life direct participating and investment DPF contracts
 
(3,526) 
(455) 
2,464 
2,968 
3,219 11,332 22,005 53,120 
91,127 
Life other contracts
 
971 
(96) 
(101) 
(53) 
7 
63 
279 
2,529 
3,599 
Insurance liability future cash flows at 31 Dec
 
(2,555) 
(551) 
2,363 
2,915 
3,226 11,395 22,284 55,649 
94,726 
Remaining contractual service margin1
Life direct participating and investment DPF contracts
 
1,052 
961 
880 
810 
746 
2,892 
2,954 
1,634 
11,929 
Life other contracts
 
128 
104 
85 
69 
53 
159 
127 
62 
787 
Remaining contractual service margin at 31 Dec
 
1,180 
1,065 
965 
879 
799 
3,051 
3,081 
1,696 
12,716 
2023
Insurance liability future cash flows
Life direct participating and investment DPF contracts
 
(2,620) 
(545) 
2,321 
2,419 
3,344 11,695 23,351 65,897 105,862 
Life other contracts
 
1,276 
362 
(347) 
4 
(45) 
36 
102 
1,628 
3,016 
Insurance liability future cash flows at 31 Dec
 
(1,344) 
(183) 
1,974 
2,423 
3,299 11,731 23,453 67,525 108,878 
Remaining contractual service margin
Life direct participating and investment DPF contracts
 
917 
848 
783 
722 
666 
2,597 
2,653 
1,428 
10,614 
Life other contracts
 
172 
113 
84 
74 
61 
141 
115 
41 
801 
Remaining contractual service margin at 31 Dec
 
1,089 
961 
867 
796 
727 
2,738 
2,768 
1,469 
11,415 
1 ‘Insurance liability future cash flows’ and ‘Remaining contractual service margin’ at 31 December 2024 exclude the French insurance business that was 
classified as held for sale at 31 December 2024. Further details are provided on page 412.
Discount rates
The discount rates applied to expected future cash flows are determined through a bottom-up approach as set out in Note 1.2(j) ‘Summary of 
material accounting policies – Insurance contracts’ on page 354. The blended average of discount rates used within our most material 
manufacturing entities are as follows:
HSBC Life (International) Ltd
Hang Seng Insurance Co Ltd
HSBC Assurances 
Vie (France)
HK$
US$
HK$
US$
€
At 31 Dec 2024
10-year discount rate (%)
4.32
5.16
4.43
5.25
2.97
20-year discount rate (%)
4.42
5.51
4.53
5.60
2.95
At 31 Dec 2023
10-year discount rate (%)
4.02
4.47
4.16
4.62
2.96
20-year discount rate (%)
4.21
4.91
4.34
5.06
2.97
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
373
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

5 Employee compensation and benefits
2024
2023
2022
$m
$m
$m
Employee compensation and benefits1
 
18,465 
18,220 
18,003 
Capitalised wages and salaries2
 
1,688 
1,403 
1,285 
Gross employee compensation and benefits for the year ended 31 Dec
 
20,153 
19,623 
19,288 
Consists of:
Wages and salaries
 
17,815 
17,359 
16,970 
Social security costs
 
1,487 
1,507 
1,403 
Post-employment benefits
 
851 
757 
915 
Year ended 31 Dec
 
20,153 
19,623 
19,288 
1 Employee compensation and benefits are presented in the income statement net of software capitalisation costs and costs included in the insurance contract 
fulfilment cash flow liabilities under IFRS 17.
2 Comprises $1,118m (2023: $1,043m; 2022: $922m) software capitalisation costs and $570m (2023: $360m; 2022: $363m) costs included in the insurance 
contract fulfilment cash flow liabilities under IFRS 17.
Average number of persons employed by HSBC during the year by global business1
2024
2023
2022
Wealth and Personal Banking
 
125,068 
132,336 
135,676 
Commercial Banking
 
47,135 
46,826 
48,004 
Global Banking and Markets
 
48,351 
48,043 
48,597 
Corporate Centre
 
374 
347 
365 
Year ended 31 Dec
 
220,928 
227,552 
232,642 
1 Average number of persons employed represents the number of persons with contracts of service with the Group.
Average number of persons employed by HSBC during the year by legal entity1
2024
2023
2022
HSBC UK Bank plc
 
20,034 
20,415 
20,501 
HSBC Bank plc
 
11,456 
14,809 
15,405 
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited
 
54,478 
54,321 
54,792 
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited
 
3,344 
3,316 
3,338 
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
 
5,928 
6,046 
6,749 
HSBC Bank Canada
 
758 
4,354 
4,241 
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S.A. de C.V.
 
13,928 
14,412 
14,484 
Other trading entities2
 
8,393 
9,247 
10,026 
Holding companies, shared service centres and intra-Group eliminations
 
102,609 
100,632 
103,106 
Year ended 31 Dec
 
220,928 
227,552 
232,642 
1 Average number of persons employed represents the number of persons with contracts of service with the Group.
2 Other trading entities includes entities located in Türkiye, Egypt and Saudi Arabia.
Reconciliation of total incentive awards granted to income statement charge
2024
2023
2022
$m
$m
$m
Total incentive awards approved for the current year
 
3,800 
3,774 
3,359 
Less: deferred bonuses awarded, expected to be recognised in future periods
 
(381) 
(353) 
(343) 
Total incentives awarded and recognised in the current year
 
3,419 
3,421 
3,016 
Add: current year charges for deferred bonuses from previous years
 
439 
375 
239 
Other
 
(97) 
(56) 
(22) 
Income statement charge for incentive awards
 
3,761 
3,740 
3,233 
 
Share-based payments
‘Wages and salaries’ includes the effect of share-based payments arrangements, of which $529m (2023: $482m; 2022: $400m) was equity 
settled, as follows:
2024
2023
2022
$m
$m
$m
Conditional share awards
551
499
402
Savings-related and other share award option plans
27
23
22
Year ended 31 Dec
578
522
424
 
Notes on the financial statements
374
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

HSBC share awards
Award
Policy
Deferred share awards 
(including annual incentive 
awards, long-term incentive 
(‘LTI’) awards delivered in 
shares) 
An assessment of performance over the relevant period ending on 31 December is used to determine the amount of the award 
to be granted.
– Deferred awards generally require employees to remain in employment over the vesting period and are generally not subject 
to performance conditions after the grant date. An exception to these are LTI awards, which are subject to performance 
conditions.
– Deferred share awards generally vest over a period of three, four, five or seven years.
– Vested shares may be subject to a retention requirement post-vesting. 
– Awards are generally subject to malus and clawback provisions.
International Employee Share 
Purchase Plan (‘ShareMatch’)
The plan was first introduced in Hong Kong in 2013 and now includes employees based in 30 jurisdictions.
– Shares are purchased in the market each quarter up to a maximum value of £750, or the equivalent in local currency.
– Matching awards are added at a ratio of one free share for every three purchased. In mainland China, matching awards are 
settled in cash.
– Matching awards vest subject to continued employment and the retention of the purchased shares for a maximum period of 
two years and nine months.
Movement on HSBC share awards
2024
2023
Number
Number
(000s)
(000s)
Conditional share awards outstanding at 1 Jan
 
125,023 
126,246 
Additions during the year
 
84,930 
72,289 
Released in the year
 
(71,849) 
(70,054) 
Forfeited in the year
 
(4,461) 
(3,458) 
Conditional share awards outstanding at 31 Dec
 
133,643 
125,023 
Weighted average fair value of awards granted ($)
 
6.08 
5.84 
HSBC share option plans
Main plans
Policy
Savings-related share option 
plans (‘Sharesave’)
– From 2014, employees eligible for the UK plan could save up to £500 per month with the option to use the savings to acquire 
shares.
– These are generally exercisable within six months following either the third or fifth anniversary of the commencement of a 
three-year or five-year contract, respectively.
– The exercise price is set at a 20% (2023: 20%) discount to the market value immediately preceding the date of invitation.
 
Calculation of fair values
The fair values of share options are calculated using a Black-Scholes model. The fair value of a share award is based on the share price at the 
date of the grant. 
Movement on HSBC share option plans
Savings-related
share option plans
Number
WAEP1
(000s)
£
Outstanding at 1 Jan 2024
 
83,994 
3.42 
Granted during the year2
 
11,845 
5.30 
Exercised during the year3
 
(16,776) 
2.94 
Expired during the year
 
(2,454) 
4.20 
Forfeited during the year
 
(1,274) 
3.48 
Outstanding at 31 Dec 2024
 
75,335 
3.81 
– of which exercisable
 
1,446 
3.34 
Weighted average remaining contractual life (years)
2.10
Outstanding at 1 Jan 2023
 
115,651 
2.89 
Granted during the year2
 
23,382 
4.70 
Exercised during the year3
 
(49,007) 
2.73 
Expired during the year
 
(3,832) 
3.78 
Forfeited during the year
 
(2,200) 
2.88 
Outstanding at 31 Dec 2023
 
83,994 
3.42 
– of which exercisable
 
7,165 
2.70 
Weighted average remaining contractual life (years)
2.41
1 Weighted average exercise price.
2 The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was $1.66 (2023: $1.92).
3 The weighted average share price at the date the options were exercised was $8.54 (2023: $7.39).
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
375
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Post-employment benefit plans
The Group operates pension plans throughout the world for its employees. ‘Pension risk management processes’ on page 203 contains details 
of the policies and practices associated with these pension plans, some of which are defined benefit plans. The largest defined benefit plan is 
the HSBC UK section of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme (‘the principal plan’), created as a result of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme 
being fully sectionalised in 2018 to meet the requirements of the Banking Reform Act. For further details of how the trustee of the HSBC Bank 
(UK) Pension Scheme manages climate risk, see ’Managing climate risk’ on page 60.
HSBC holds on its balance sheet the net surplus or deficit, which is the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the discounted 
value of scheme liabilities at the balance sheet date for each plan. Surpluses are only recognised to the extent that they are recoverable 
through reduced contributions in the future or through potential future refunds from the schemes. In assessing whether a surplus is 
recoverable, HSBC has considered its current right to obtain a future refund or a reduction in future contributions together with the rights of 
third parties such as trustees.
The principal plan
The principal plan has a defined benefit section and a defined contribution section. The defined benefit section was closed to future benefit 
accrual in 2015, with defined benefits earned by employees at that date continuing to be linked to their salary while they remain employed by 
HSBC. The plan is overseen by an independent corporate trustee, who has a fiduciary responsibility for the operation of the plan. Its assets are 
held separately from the assets of the Group.
The investment strategy of the plan is to hold the majority of assets in bonds, with the remainder in a diverse range of investments. It also 
includes some interest rate swaps to reduce interest rate risk, inflation swaps to reduce inflation risk and longevity swaps to reduce the impact 
of longer life expectancy.
The principal plan is subject to the statutory funding objective requirements of the UK Pensions Act 2004, which requires that it be funded to at 
least the level of technical provisions (an actuarial estimate of the assets needed to provide for the benefits already built up under the plan). 
Where a funding valuation is carried out and identifies a deficit, the employer and trustee are required to agree to a deficit recovery plan. 
The latest funding valuation of the plan at 31 December 2022 was carried out by Towers Watson Limited, using the projected unit credit 
method. At that date, the market value of the plan’s assets was £23.9bn ($28.8bn) and this exceeded the value placed on its liabilities on an 
ongoing basis by £3.7bn ($4.4bn), giving a funding level of 118%. These figures include defined contribution assets amounting to £3.0bn 
($3.6bn). The main differences between the assumptions used for assessing the defined benefit liabilities for this funding valuation and those 
used for IAS 19 are that an element of prudence is contained in the funding valuation assumptions for discount rate, inflation rate and life 
expectancy. The funding valuation is used to judge the amount of cash contributions the Group needs to put into the pension scheme. It will 
always be different to the IAS 19 accounting surplus, which is an accounting rule concerning employee benefits and shown on the balance 
sheet of our financial statements. The next funding valuation will be performed in 2026, with an effective date of 31 December 2025.
The actuary also assessed the value of the liabilities if the plan were to have been stopped and an insurance company asked to secure all future 
pension payments. This is generally larger than the amount needed on the ongoing basis described above because an insurance company 
would use more prudent assumptions, which would allow for reserves and include an explicit allowance for the future administrative expenses 
of the plan. Under this approach, the amount of assets needed was estimated to be £21.3bn ($25.7bn) at 31 December 2022.
The trust deed gives the ability for HSBC UK to take a refund of surplus assets after the plan has been run down such that no further 
beneficiaries remain. In assessing whether a surplus is recoverable, HSBC UK has considered its right to obtain a future refund together with 
the rights of third parties such as trustees. On this basis, any net surplus in the HSBC UK section of the plan is recognised in HSBC UK’s 
financial statements and the Group’s financial statements.
 
Income statement charge/(credit)
2024
2023
2022
$m
$m
$m
Defined benefit pension plans
 
(116) 
(151) 
42 
Defined contribution pension plans
 
933 
874 
845 
Pension plans
 
817 
723 
887 
Defined benefit and contribution healthcare plans
 
34 
34 
28 
Year ended 31 Dec
 
851 
757 
915 
Net assets/(liabilities) recognised on the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit plans
Fair value of
plan assets
Present value of defined 
benefit obligations
Effect of limit on plan 
surpluses
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
Defined benefit pension plans
 
30,758 
(23,959) 
— 
6,799 
Defined benefit healthcare plans
 
80 
(348) 
— 
(268) 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
30,838 
(24,307) 
— 
6,531 
Total employee benefit liabilities (within Note 27 ‘Accruals, deferred 
income and other liabilities’)
 
(1,017) 
Total employee benefit assets (within Note 22 ‘Prepayments, 
accrued income and other assets’)
 
7,548 
Defined benefit pension plans
 
33,897 
(27,011) 
— 
6,886 
Defined benefit healthcare plans
 
107 
(403) 
— 
(296) 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
34,004 
(27,414) 
— 
6,590 
Total employee benefit liabilities (within Note 27 ‘Accruals, deferred 
income and other liabilities’)
 
(1,160) 
Total employee benefit assets (within Note 22 ‘Prepayments, 
accrued income and other assets’)
 
7,750 
Notes on the financial statements
376
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

HSBC Holdings
Employee compensation and benefit expense in respect of HSBC Holdings’ employees in 2024 amounted to $29m (2023: $15m). The average number 
of persons employed during 2024 was 28 (2023: 29). A small number of employees are members of defined benefit pension plans. These employees 
are members of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme. HSBC Holdings pays contributions to such plan for its own employees in accordance with the 
schedules of contributions determined by the trustees of the plan and recognises these contributions as an expense as they fall due. 
Defined benefit pension plans
Net asset/(liability) under defined benefit pension plans 
Fair value of plan 
assets
Present value of 
defined benefit 
obligations
Effect of the asset 
ceiling
Net defined benefit 
asset/(liability)
Principal1
plan
Other
plans
Principal1
plan
Other
plans
Principal1
plan
Other
plans
Principal1
plan
Other
plans
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
At 1 Jan 2024
 
26,590 
7,307 
(19,782) 
(7,229) 
— 
— 
6,808 
78 
Service cost
 
— 
(1) 
(35) 
(144) 
— 
— 
(35) 
(145) 
– current service cost
 
— 
— 
(9) 
(140) 
— 
— 
(9) 
(140) 
– past service cost and gains/(losses) from settlements
 
— 
(1) 
(26) 
(4) 
— 
— 
(26) 
(5) 
Net interest income/(cost) on the net defined benefit asset/
(liability)
 
1,213 
277 
(896) 
(265) 
— 
— 
317 
12 
Remeasurement effects recognised in other 
comprehensive income
 
(2,665) 
(6) 
2,156 
186 
— 
— 
(509) 
180 
– return on plan assets (excluding interest income)
 
(2,665) 
(6) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(2,665) 
(6) 
– actuarial gains/(losses) financial assumptions
 
— 
— 
1,771 
204 
— 
— 
1,771 
204 
– actuarial gains/(losses) demographic assumptions
 
— 
— 
161 
(5) 
— 
— 
161 
(5) 
– actuarial gains/(losses) experience adjustments
 
— 
— 
224 
(13) 
— 
— 
224 
(13) 
– other changes
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Exchange differences
 
(387) 
(145) 
281 
191 
— 
— 
(106) 
46 
Benefits paid
 
(1,082) 
(496) 
1,082 
561 
— 
— 
— 
65 
Other movements2
 
(17) 
170 
(29) 
(36) 
— 
— 
(46) 
134 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
23,652 
7,106 
(17,223) 
(6,736) 
— 
— 
6,429 
370 
At 1 Jan 2023
 
25,121 
7,050 
(18,787) 
(6,906) 
— 
— 
6,334 
144 
Service cost
 
— 
— 
(10) 
(150) 
— 
— 
(10) 
(150) 
– current service cost
 
— 
— 
(14) 
(135) 
— 
— 
(14) 
(135) 
– past service cost and losses from settlements
 
— 
— 
4 
(15) 
— 
— 
4 
(15) 
Net interest income/(cost) on the net defined benefit asset/
(liability)
 
1,247 
298 
(925) 
(286) 
— 
— 
322 
12 
Remeasurement effects recognised in other 
comprehensive income
 
(225) 
110 
7 
(300) 
— 
— 
(218) 
(190) 
– return on plan assets (excluding interest income)
 
(225) 
110 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(225) 
110 
– actuarial gains/(losses) financial assumptions
 
— 
— 
(123) 
(327) 
— 
— 
(123) 
(327) 
– actuarial gains/(losses) demographic assumptions
 
— 
— 
357 
17 
— 
— 
357 
17 
– actuarial gains/(losses) experience adjustments
 
— 
— 
(227) 
10 
— 
— 
(227) 
10 
– other changes
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Exchange differences
 
1,472 
228 
(1,098) 
(190) 
— 
— 
374 
38 
Benefits paid
 
(1,063) 
(548) 
1,063 
629 
— 
— 
— 
81 
Other movements2
 
38 
169 
(32) 
(26) 
— 
— 
6 
143 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
26,590 
7,307 
(19,782) 
(7,229) 
— 
— 
6,808 
78 
1 For further details of the principal plan, see page 376.
2 Other movements include contributions by HSBC, contributions by employees, administrative costs and taxes paid by plan.
HSBC expects to make $97m of contributions to defined benefit pension plans during 2025, consisting of $nil for the principal plan and $97m 
for other plans. Benefits expected to be paid from the plans to retirees over each of the next five years, and in aggregate for the five years 
thereafter, are as follows:
Benefits expected to be paid from plans
2025
2026
2027
2028
2029
2030-2034
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
The principal plan1,2
 
1,094 
1,129 
1,165 
1,203 
1,242 
6,837 
Other plans1
 
437 
423 
438 
432 
428 
2,223 
1 The duration of the defined benefit obligation is 11.8 years for the principal plan under the disclosure assumptions adopted (2023: 12.9 years) and 9.8 years for 
all other plans combined (2023: 10.3 years).
2 For further details of the principal plan, see page 376.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
377
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Fair value of plan assets by asset classes
31 Dec 2024
31 Dec 2023
Value
Quoted
market price
in active
market
No quoted
market price
in active
market
Thereof
HSBC1
Value
Quoted
market price
in active
market
No quoted
market price
in active
market
Thereof
HSBC1
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
The principal plan2
Fair value of plan assets
 
23,652 
13,903 
9,749 
421 
26,590 
15,006 
11,584 
547 
– equities3
 
65 
— 
65 
— 
83 
— 
83 
— 
– bonds fixed income
 
5,864 
5,372 
492 
— 
5,262 
4,739 
523 
— 
– bonds index-linked
 
8,253 
8,253 
— 
— 
10,300 
10,300 
— 
— 
– derivatives
 
295 
— 
295 
421 
1,061 
— 
1,061 
547 
– property
 
833 
— 
833 
— 
830 
— 
830 
— 
– pooled investment vehicles
 
8,064 
— 
8,064 
— 
9,087 
— 
9,087 
— 
– other
 
278 
278 
— 
— 
(33) 
(33) 
— 
— 
Other plans
Fair value of plan assets
 
7,106 
6,407 
699 
19 
7,307 
5,361 
1,946 
39 
– equities
 
587 
587 
— 
4 
556 
556 
— 
3 
– bonds fixed income
 
3,671 
3,671 
— 
4 
3,624 
3,623 
1 
5 
– bonds index-linked
 
33 
33 
— 
— 
90 
90 
— 
— 
– bonds other
 
473 
473 
— 
— 
447 
415 
32 
— 
– derivatives
 
2 
(3) 
5 
— 
2 
(1) 
3 
— 
– property
 
103 
98 
5 
— 
112 
108 
4 
— 
– other
 
2,237 
1,548 
689 
11 
2,476 
570 
1,906 
31 
1 The fair value of plan assets includes derivatives entered into with HSBC Bank plc as detailed in Note 36. 
2 For further details of the principal plan, see page 376.
3 Includes $65m (2023: $83m) in relation to private equities.
Post-employment defined benefit plans’ principal actuarial financial assumptions
HSBC determines the discount rates to be applied to its obligations in consultation with the plans’ local actuaries, on the basis of current 
average yields of high-quality (AA-rated or equivalent) debt instruments with maturities consistent with those of the defined benefit obligations.
Key actuarial assumptions for the principal plan1
Discount rate
Inflation rate (RPI)
Inflation rate (CPI)
Rate of increase for pensions
Rate of pay increase
%
%
%
%
%
UK
At 31 Dec 2024
 
5.54 
 
3.33 
 
2.88 
 
3.22 
 
3.63 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
4.65 
 
3.23 
 
2.67 
 
3.14 
 
3.42 
1 For further details of the principal plan, see page 376.
Mortality tables and average life expectancy at age 60 for the principal plan1
Mortality
table
Life expectancy at age 60 for
a male member currently:
Life expectancy at age 60 for
a female member currently:
Aged 60
Aged 40
Aged 60
Aged 40
UK
At 31 Dec 2024
SAPS S32
26.1
27.7
28.3
29.9
At 31 Dec 2023
SAPS S33
26.2
27.7
28.3
29.8
1 For further details of the principal plan, see page 376.
2 Self-administered pension scheme (‘SAPS’) S3 table, with different tables and multipliers adopted based on gender, pension amount and member status, 
reflecting the Scheme’s actual mortality experience. Improvements are projected in accordance with the Continuous Mortality Investigation's CMI 2023 core 
projection model with an initial addition to improvement of 0.25% per annum, and a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% per annum and with a 0% 
weighting to 2020 and 2021 mortality experience and a 15% weighting to 2022 and 2023, reflecting long-term view on mortality improvements post-pandemic.
3 Self-administered pension scheme (‘SAPS’) S3 table, with different tables and multipliers adopted based on gender, pension amount and member status, 
reflecting the Scheme’s actual mortality experience. Improvements are projected in accordance with the Continuous Mortality Investigation’s CMI 2022 core 
projection model with an initial addition to improvement of 0.25% per annum, a long-term rate of improvement of 1.25% per annum, with a 0% weighting to 
2020 and 2021, mortality experience and a 25% weighting to 2022, reflecting updated long-term view on mortality improvements post-pandemic.
The effect of changes in key assumptions on the principal plan1
Impact on HSBC UK section of the 
HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme obligation
Financial impact of increase
Financial impact of decrease
2024
2023
2024
2023
$m
$m
$m
$m
Discount rate – increase/decrease of 0.25%
 
(473) 
(599) 
496 
631 
Inflation rate (RPI and CPI) – increase/decrease of 0.25%
 
389 
500 
(391) 
(497) 
Pension payments and deferred pensions – increase/decrease of 0.25%
 
487 
622 
(478) 
(590) 
Pay – increase/decrease of 0.25%
 
6 
8 
(6) 
(6) 
Change in mortality – increase/decrease of 1 year
 
483 
613 
(464) 
(613) 
1 For further details of the principal plan, see page 376.
Notes on the financial statements
378
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this is unlikely 
to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to 
significant actuarial assumptions the same method (present value of the defined benefit obligation calculated with the projected unit credit 
method at the end of the reporting period) has been applied as when calculating the defined benefit asset recognised in the balance sheet. The 
methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared with the prior period.
Directors’ emoluments
Details of Directors’ emoluments, pensions and their interests are disclosed in the Directors’ remuneration report on page 279. 
6
Auditor’s remuneration
2024
2023
2022
$m
$m
$m
Audit fees payable to PwC1
 
102.8 
109.8
97.6
Other audit fees payable
1.6
2.2
1.6
Year ended 31 Dec
 
104.4 
112.0
99.2
Fees payable by HSBC to PwC
2024
2023
2022
$m
$m
$m
Fees for HSBC Holdings’ statutory audit2
 
22.0 
24.1 
21.9 
Fees for other services provided to HSBC
 
124.6 
131.8 
126.2 
– audit of HSBC’s subsidiaries
 
80.8 
85.7 
75.7 
– audit-related assurance services3
 
25.0 
26.0 
26.4 
– other assurance services4,5
 
18.8 
20.1 
24.1 
Year ended 31 Dec
 
146.6 
155.9 
148.1 
1 Audit fees payable to PwC in 2024 included adjustments made to the prior year audit fee after finalisation of the 2023 financial statements. 
2 Fees payable to PwC for the statutory audit of the consolidated financial statements of HSBC and the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings. They 
include amounts payable for services relating to the consolidation returns of HSBC Holdings’ subsidiaries, which are clearly identifiable as being in support of the 
Group audit opinion.
3 Including services for assurance and other services that relate to statutory and regulatory filings, including interim reviews.
4 Including permitted services relating to attestation reports on internal controls of a service organisation primarily prepared for and used by third-party end users, 
including comfort letters.
5 Includes reviews of PRA regulatory reporting returns.
No fees were payable by HSBC to PwC as principal auditor for the following types of services: internal audit services and services related to 
litigation, recruitment and remuneration.
Fees payable by HSBC’s associated pension schemes to PwC
2024
2023
2022
$000
$000
$000
Audit of HSBC’s associated pension schemes
 
320 
297 
480 
Year ended 31 Dec
 
320 
297 
480 
 
No fees were payable by HSBC’s associated pension schemes to PwC as principal auditor for the following types of services: internal audit 
services, other assurance services, services related to corporate finance transactions, valuation and actuarial services, litigation, recruitment 
and remuneration, and information technology.
In addition to the above, the estimated fees paid to PwC by third parties associated with HSBC amounted to $9.9m (2023: $12.3m; 
2022: $13.1m). In these cases, HSBC was connected with the contracting party and may therefore have been involved in appointing PwC. 
These fees arose from services such as auditing mutual funds managed by HSBC and reviewing the financial position of corporate concerns 
that borrow from HSBC.
Fees payable for non-audit services for HSBC Holdings are not disclosed separately because such fees are disclosed on a consolidated basis for 
the Group.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
379
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

7
Tax
Tax expense
2024
2023
2022
$m
$m
$m
Current tax1
 
6,115 
5,718 
2,984 
– for this year
 
5,863 
5,737 
3,264 
– adjustments in respect of prior years
 
31 
(19) 
(280) 
– Pillar 2 and qualifying domestic top-up taxes
 
221 
— 
— 
Deferred tax
 
1,195 
71 
(2,175) 
– origination and reversal of temporary differences
 
1,288 
19 
(2,278) 
– effect of changes in tax rates
 
(2) 
17 
(293) 
– adjustments in respect of prior years
 
(91) 
35 
396 
Year ended 31 Dec2
 
7,310 
5,789 
809 
1 Current tax included Hong Kong profits tax of $1,615m (2023: $1,328m; 2022: $604m). The Hong Kong tax rate applying to the profits of subsidiaries assessable 
in Hong Kong was 16.5% (2023: 16.5%; 2022: 16.5%). 
2 In addition to amounts recorded in the income statement, a tax credit of $12m (2023: credit of $41m) was recorded directly to equity.
Tax reconciliation
The tax charged to the income statement differs from the tax charge that would apply if all profits had been taxed at the UK corporation tax rate 
as follows:
2024
2023
2022
$m
%
$m
%
$m
%
Profit before tax
 
32,309 
 
30,348 
 
17,058 
Tax expense
Taxation at UK corporation tax rate of 25.0% (2023: 23.5%, 2022: 19.0%)
 
8,077 
 
25.0 
7,132 
 
23.5 
3,241 
 
19.0 
Impact of differently taxed overseas profits in overseas locations
 
(1,351) 
 
(4.2) 
(612) 
 
(2.0) 
459 
 
2.7 
UK banking surcharge
 
215 
 
0.7 
350 
 
1.2 
283 
 
1.7 
Items increasing tax charge in 2024:
– tax impact of sale of HSBC Argentina
 
1,536 
 
4.8 
— 
 
— 
— 
 
— 
– local taxes and overseas withholding taxes 
 
584 
 
1.8 
419 
 
1.4 
346 
 
2.0 
– other permanent disallowables 
 
344 
 
1.0 
227 
 
0.7 
363 
 
2.1 
– impacts of hyperinflation 
 
327 
 
1.0 
348 
 
1.1 
171 
 
1.0 
– movements in unrecognised deferred tax
 
259 
 
0.7 
(22) 
 
(0.1) 
(2,503) 
 
(14.7) 
– Global Minimum Tax top-up charge
 
221 
 
0.7 
— 
 
— 
— 
 
— 
– bank levy 
 
73 
 
0.2 
112 
 
0.4 
59 
 
0.3 
– movements in provisions for uncertain tax positions
 
38 
 
0.1 
(472) 
 
(1.6) 
27 
 
0.2 
– impact of changes in tax rates 
 
6 
 
— 
17 
 
0.1 
(293) 
 
(1.7) 
– impairment of interest in associate
 
— 
 
— 
705 
 
2.3 
— 
 
— 
Items reducing tax charge in 2024:
– non-taxable gain on disposal of HSBC Canada
 
(1,174) 
 
(3.6) 
— 
 
— 
— 
 
— 
– non-taxable income and gains
 
(1,079) 
 
(3.3) 
(1,189) 
 
(3.9) 
(825) 
 
(4.8) 
– effect of profits in associates and joint ventures
 
(456) 
 
(1.4) 
(571) 
 
(1.9) 
(504) 
 
(3.1) 
– deductions for AT1 coupon payments
 
(249) 
 
(0.8) 
(229) 
 
(0.7) 
(246) 
 
(1.4) 
– adjustments in respect of prior period 
 
(46) 
 
(0.1) 
16 
 
0.1 
116 
 
0.7 
– tax impact of sale of French retail banking business 
 
(15) 
 
— 
— 
 
— 
115 
 
0.7 
– accounting gain on acquisition of SVB UK
 
— 
 
— 
(442) 
 
(1.5) 
— 
 
— 
Year ended 31 Dec
 
7,310 
 
22.6 
5,789 
 
19.1 
809 
 
4.7 
 
The Group’s profits are taxed at different rates depending on the country or territory in which the profits arise. The key applicable tax rates for 
2024 include Hong Kong (16.5%), the US (21%) and the UK (25%). If the Group’s profits were taxed at the statutory rates of the countries in 
which the profits arose, then the tax rate for the year would have been 21.4% (2023: 22.6%). 
The effective tax rate for the year of 22.6% was higher than in the previous year (2023: 19.1%). The effective tax rate for the year was reduced 
by 3.6% by the non-taxable gain arising on the disposal of HSBC Canada, increased by 4.8% by the non-deductible loss arising on the disposal 
of HSBC Argentina, increased by 70.0% by movements in unrecognised deferred tax, primarily relating to French tax losses, and increased by 
70.0% by the Group’s Pillar 2 Global Minimum Tax charge. The effective tax rate for 2023 was increased by 2.3% by the non-taxable 
impairment of the Group’s investment in BoCom, reduced by 1.6% by the release of provisions for uncertain tax positions and reduced by 
1.5% by the non-taxable accounting gain on the acquisition of SVB UK.
In July 2023, the UK enacted legislation to introduce the ‘Pillar Two’ global minimum tax model rules of the OECD’s Inclusive Framework on 
Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (’BEPS’) and a UK qualified domestic minimum top-up tax, with effect from 1 January 2024. Under the Pillar 
Two rules, a top-up tax liability arises where the Group’s effective tax rate in a jurisdiction is below 15%. The Group has recorded a Pillar Two 
global minimum tax charge of $221m for the period, primarily related to the non-taxation of dividends and income on government bonds in 
Hong Kong (which have the effect of reducing the effective tax rate from the statutory rate of 16.5% to below 15%) and low or nil statutory tax 
rates in jurisdictions such as Bermuda and the Channel Islands. For the current period, this tax expense will be substantially payable in the UK 
by HSBC Holdings. 
Many jurisdictions have introduced or announced the introduction of domestic minimum tax rules that are closely aligned to the OECD’s Pillar 
Two model rules, as well as new or amended corporate income tax rules, with effect from 2024 or 2025. As and when such taxes are 
introduced, they will have the effect of increasing local tax liabilities, eliminating or reducing the top-up tax liability payable in the UK by HSBC 
Notes on the financial statements
380
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Holdings in respect of those jurisdictions. Hong Kong, Bermuda and the Channel Islands have introduced such new tax rules with effect from 
1 January 2025. 
Accounting for taxes involves some estimation because tax law is uncertain and its application requires a degree of judgement, which 
authorities may dispute. Liabilities are recognised based on best estimates of the probable outcome, taking into account external advice where 
appropriate. Exposures relating to legacy tax cases were reassessed during 2024, resulting in a charge of $38m to the income statement. We 
do not expect significant liabilities to arise in excess of the amounts provided. HSBC only recognises current and deferred tax assets where 
recovery is probable. 
Movement of deferred tax assets and liabilities
Loan
impairment
provisions
Unused tax
losses and
tax credits
Financial 
assets at 
FVOCI
Cash flow 
hedges
Retirement 
obligations
Other
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Assets
 
1,158 
4,544 
876 
419 
— 
2,933 
9,930 
Liabilities
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(1,814) 
(1,600) 
(3,414) 
At 1 Jan 2024
 
1,158 
4,544 
876 
419 
(1,814) 
1,333 
6,516 
Income statement
 
(74) 
(640) 
100 
— 
(85) 
(431) 
(1,130) 
Other comprehensive income
 
— 
— 
(49) 
84 
114 
189 
338 
Foreign exchange and other adjustments
 
(14) 
(40) 
(311) 
(61) 
18 
208 
(200) 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
1,070 
3,864 
616 
442 
(1,767) 
1,299 
5,524 
Assets1
 
1,070 
3,864 
616 
442 
— 
2,906 
8,898 
Liabilities1
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(1,767) 
(1,607) 
(3,374) 
Assets
 
1,062 
4,397 
850 
1,271 
— 
3,048 
10,628 
Liabilities
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(1,673) 
(1,567) 
(3,240) 
At 1 Jan 2023
 
1,062 
4,397 
850 
1,271 
(1,673) 
1,481 
7,388 
Income statement
 
(39) 
102 
541 
1 
(114) 
(562) 
(71) 
Other comprehensive income
 
— 
— 
(598) 
(974) 
99 
399 
(1,074) 
Foreign exchange and other adjustments
 
135 
45 
83 
121 
(126) 
15 
273 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
1,158 
4,544 
876 
419 
(1,814) 
1,333 
6,516 
Assets1
 
1,158 
4,544 
876 
419 
— 
2,933 
9,930 
Liabilities1
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
(1,814) 
(1,600) 
(3,414) 
1 After netting off balances within countries, the balances as disclosed in the accounts are as follows: deferred tax assets of $6,841m (2023: $7,754m) and 
deferred tax liabilities of $1,317m (2023: $1,238m). 
In applying judgement in recognising deferred tax assets, management has assessed all relevant information, including future business profit 
projections and the track record of meeting forecasts. Management’s assessment of the likely availability of future taxable profits against which 
to recover deferred tax assets is based on the most recent financial forecasts approved by management, which cover a five-year period and are 
extrapolated where necessary, and takes into consideration the reversal of existing taxable temporary differences and past business 
performance. When forecasts are extrapolated beyond five years, a number of different scenarios are considered, reflecting different 
downward risk adjustments, in order to assess the sensitivity of our recognition and measurement conclusions in the context of such longerterm forecasts.
The Group’s net deferred tax asset of $5.5bn (2023: $6.5bn) included $2.6bn (2023: $3.3bn) of deferred tax assets relating to the UK, $3.0bn 
(2023: $3.1bn) of deferred tax assets relating to the US and a net deferred asset of $0.5bn (2023: $0.9bn) in France. 
The UK deferred tax asset of $2.6bn excluded a $1.8bn deferred tax liability arising on the UK pension scheme surplus, the reversal of which is 
not taken into account when estimating future taxable profit due to the level of uncertainty as to the timing and manner of its reversal. The UK 
deferred tax assets are supported by forecasts of taxable profit, also taking into consideration the history of profitability in the relevant 
businesses. The majority of the deferred tax asset relates to tax attributes which do not expire and are forecast to be recovered within 3 years 
and as such are less sensitive to changes in long-term profit forecasts. 
The net US deferred tax asset of $3.0bn included $1.2bn related to US tax losses, of which $0.9bn expire in 10 to 15 years. Management 
expects the US deferred tax asset to be substantially recovered within 13 years, with the majority recovered in the first 5 years.
The net deferred tax asset in France of $0.5bn included $0.5bn related to tax losses, which are expected to be substantially recovered within 
12 years. Unused tax losses with a tax value of $0.2bn have not been recognised due to the absence of convincing evidence regarding the 
availability of sufficient future taxable profits against which to recover them. 
Unrecognised deferred tax
The amount of gross temporary differences, unused tax losses and tax credits for which no deferred tax asset is recognised in the balance 
sheet was $11.0bn (2023: $10.4bn). This amount included unused US state tax losses of $3.8bn (2023: $4.0bn) which are forecast to expire 
before they are recovered, unused French tax losses of $0.7bn (2023: nil) for which there is insufficient evidence of future taxable profits to 
support recognition, and unused UK tax losses of $3.5bn (2023: $4.5bn), which arose prior to 1 April 2017 and can only be recovered against 
future taxable profits of HSBC Holdings. No deferred tax was recognised on these losses due to the absence of convincing evidence regarding 
the availability of sufficient future taxable profits against which to recover them. Deferred tax asset recognition is reassessed at each balance 
sheet date based on the available evidence. Of the total amounts on which deferred tax was not recognised, $6.0bn (2023: $5.1bn) had no 
expiry date, $1.0bn (2023: $0.5bn) was scheduled to expire within 10 years and the remaining balance is expected to expire after 10 years.
Deferred tax is not recognised in respect of the Group’s investments in subsidiaries and branches where HSBC is able to control the timing of 
remittance or other realisation and where remittance or realisation is not probable in the foreseeable future. The aggregate temporary 
differences relating to unrecognised deferred tax liabilities arising on investments in subsidiaries and branches was $15.2bn (2023: $14.4bn) 
and the corresponding unrecognised deferred tax liability was $0.7bn (2023: $0.7bn).
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
381
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

8
Dividends
Dividends to shareholders of the parent company
2024
2023
2022
Per
share
Total
Per
share
Total
Per
share
Total
$
$m
$
$m
$
$m
Dividends paid on ordinary shares
In respect of previous year:
– second interim dividend
 
— 
— 
0.23 
4,589 
0.18 
3,576 
– fourth interim dividend
 
0.31 
5,872 
— 
— 
— 
— 
In respect of current year:
– first interim dividend
 
0.10 
1,877 
0.10 
2,001 
0.09 
1,754 
– special dividend
 
0.21 
3,942 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– second interim dividend
 
0.10 
1,852 
0.10 
1,956 
— 
— 
– third interim dividend
 
0.10 
1,805 
0.10 
1,946 
— 
— 
Total
 
0.82 
15,348 
0.53 
10,492 
0.27 
5,330 
Total coupons on capital securities classified as equity 
 
1,062 
 
1,101 
 
1,214 
Dividends to shareholders 
 
16,410 
 
11,593 
 
6,544 
Total coupons on capital securities classified as equity 
2024
2023
2022
Total
Total
Total
First call date
Per security
$m
$m
$m
Perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities1
$2,250m issued at 6.375%2
Sep 2024 
$63.750 
122 
143 
143 
$2,450m issued at 6.375%
Mar 2025 
$63.750 
156 
156 
156 
$3,000m issued at 6.000%
May 2027 
$60.000 
180 
180 
180 
$2,350m issued at 6.250%3
Mar 2023 
$62.500 
— 
52 
147 
$1,800m issued at 6.500%
Mar 2028 
$65.000 
117 
117 
117 
$1,500m issued at 4.600%
Dec 2030 
$46.000 
69 
69 
69 
$1,000m issued at 4.000%
Mar 2026 
$40.000 
40 
40 
40 
$1,000m issued at 4.700%
Mar 2031 
$47.000 
47 
47 
47 
$2,000m issued at 8.000%4
Mar 2028 
$80.000 
160 
80 
— 
$1,350m issued at 6.875%5
Sep 2029 
$68.750 
— 
— 
— 
$1,150m issued at 6.950%6
Mar 2034 
$69.500 
— 
— 
— 
€1,500m issued at 5.250%7
Sep 2022 
€52.500 
— 
— 
76 
€1,000m issued at 6.000%8
Sep 2023 
€60.000 
— 
56 
63 
€1,250m issued at 4.750%
Jul 2029 
€47.500 
65 
64 
65 
£1,000m issued at 5.875%
Sep 2026 
£58.750 
77 
72 
70 
SGD1,000m issued at 4.700%9
Jun 2022 
SGD47.000 
— 
— 
14 
SGD750m issued at 5.000%10
Sep 2023 
SGD50.000 
— 
25 
27 
SGD1,500m issued at 5.250%11
Jun 2029 
SGD52.500 
29 
— 
— 
Total
 
1,062 
1,101 
1,214 
1
Discretionary coupons are paid semi-annually, based on the denominations of each security.
2
This security was called by HSBC Holdings on 23 July 2024 and was redeemed and cancelled on 17 September 2024.
3
This security was called by HSBC Holdings on 30 January 2023 and was redeemed and cancelled on 23 March 2023.
4
This security was issued by HSBC Holdings on 7 March 2023. The first call period commences six calendar months prior to the reset date of 7 September 2028.
5
This security was issued by HSBC Holdings on 11 September 2024. The first call period commences six calendar months prior to the reset date of 11 March 
2030.
6
This security was issued by HSBC Holdings on 11 September 2024. The first call period commences six calendar months prior to the reset date of 
11 September 2034.
7
This security was called by HSBC Holdings on 9 August 2022 and was redeemed and cancelled on 16 September 2022.
8
This security was called by HSBC Holdings on 3 August 2023 and was redeemed and cancelled on 29 September 2023.
9
This security was called by HSBC Holdings on 4 May 2022 and was redeemed and cancelled on 8 June 2022.
10 This security was called by HSBC Holdings on 3 August 2023 and was redeemed and cancelled on 25 September 2023.
11 This security was issued by HSBC Holdings on 14 June 2024. The first call period commences six calendar months prior to the reset date of 14 December 2029.
On 19 February 2025, the Directors approved a fourth interim dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2024 of $0.36 per 
ordinary share (the ‘dividend’), an expected distribution of approximately $6.4bn. The dividend will be payable on 25 April 2025 to holders of 
record on the Principal Register in the UK, the Hong Kong Overseas Branch Register or the Bermuda Overseas Branch Register on 
7 March 2025. No liability was recorded in the financial statements in respect of the fourth interim dividend for 2024.
On 6 January 2025, HSBC paid a coupon on its €1,250m subordinated capital securities, representing a total distribution of €30m ($31m). No 
liability was recorded in the balance sheet at 31 December 2024 in respect of this coupon payment. 
Notes on the financial statements
382
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

9 Earnings per share
Basic earnings per ordinary share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company by the 
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, after deducting own shares held. Diluted earnings per ordinary share is calculated by 
dividing the basic earnings, which require no adjustment for the effects of dilutive potential ordinary shares, by the weighted average number 
of ordinary shares outstanding, excluding own shares held, plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on 
conversion of dilutive potential ordinary shares. 
Basic and diluted earnings per share
2024
2023
2022
Profit
Number 
of shares
Per
 share
Profit
Number
of shares
Per
share
Profit
Number
of shares
Per
share
$m
(millions)
$
$m
(millions)
$
$m
(millions)
$
Basic1
 
22,917 
18,357 
1.25 
22,432 
19,478 
1.15 
14,346 
19,849 
0.72 
Effect of dilutive potential 
ordinary shares
 
128 
 
122 
 
137 
Diluted1
 
22,917 
18,485 
1.24 
22,432 
19,600 
1.14 
14,346 
19,986 
0.72 
1
Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding (basic) or assuming dilution (diluted) after deducting own shares held.
The number of anti-dilutive employee share options excluded from the weighted average number of dilutive potential ordinary shares was Nil 
(2023: 23 million; 2022: 9.4 million). 
10 Segmental analysis
 
The Group CEO, supported by the rest of the Group Executive Committee (‘GEC’), was considered the Chief Operating Decision Maker 
(‘CODM’) during the reporting period for the purposes of identifying the Group’s reportable segments. As the reorganisation only took effect 
from 1 January 2025, it has no effect on the 2024 segmental reporting. Global business results were assessed by the CODM on the basis of 
constant currency performance that removes the effects of currency translation from reported results. Therefore, we disclose these results on 
a constant currency basis as required by IFRS Accounting Standards. The 2023 and 2022 income statements are converted at the average rates 
of exchange for 2024, and the balance sheets at 31 December 2023 and 31 December 2022 at the prevailing rates of exchange on 
31 December 2024. 
Our operations are closely integrated and, accordingly, the presentation of data includes internal allocations of certain items of income and 
expense. These allocations include the costs of certain support services and global functions to the extent that they can be meaningfully 
attributed to global businesses. While such allocations have been made on a systematic and consistent basis, they involve a certain degree of 
subjectivity. Costs that are not allocated to global businesses are included in Corporate Centre.
Where relevant, income and expense amounts presented include the results of inter-segment funding along with inter-company and interbusiness line transactions. All such transactions are undertaken on arm’s length terms. Measurement of segmental assets, liabilities, income 
and expenses is in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies. Shared costs are included in segments on the basis of actual recharges. 
The intra-group elimination items for the global businesses are presented in Corporate Centre.
Our global businesses
We provide a comprehensive range of banking and related financial services to our customers in our three global businesses. The products and 
services offered to customers are organised by these global businesses.
–
Wealth and Personal Banking (‘WPB’) provides a full range of retail banking and wealth products to our customers from personal banking to 
ultra high net worth individuals. Typically, customer offerings include retail banking products, such as current and savings accounts, 
mortgages and personal loans, credit cards, debit cards and local and international payment services. We also provide wealth management 
services, including insurance and investment products, global asset management services, investment management and private wealth 
solutions for customers with more sophisticated and international requirements. 
–
Commercial Banking (‘CMB’) offers a broad range of products and services to serve the needs of our commercial customers, including small 
and medium-sized enterprises, mid-market enterprises and corporates. These include credit and lending, international trade and receivables 
finance, treasury management and liquidity solutions (payments and cash management and commercial cards), commercial insurance and 
investments. CMB also offers customers access to products and services offered by other global businesses, such as Global Banking and 
Markets, which include foreign exchange products, raising capital on debt and equity markets and advisory services.
–
Global Banking and Markets (‘GBM’) provides tailored financial solutions to major government, corporate and institutional clients and private 
investors worldwide. The client-focused business lines deliver a full range of banking capabilities, including financing, advisory and 
transaction services, a markets business that provides services in credit, rates, foreign exchange, equities, money markets and securities 
services, and principal investment activities.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
383
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

HSBC constant currency profit before tax and balance sheet data
2024
Wealth and 
Personal 
Banking
Commercial
Banking
Global
Banking and
Markets
Corporate 
Centre
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Net operating income/(expense) before change in expected credit losses 
and other credit impairment charges1
 
28,674 
21,580 
17,529 
(1,929) 
65,854 
– external
 
20,460 
21,565 
30,698 
(6,869) 
65,854 
– inter-segment
 
8,214 
15 
(13,169) 
4,940 
— 
– of which: net interest income/(expense)2
 
20,352 
17,261 
7,488 
(12,368) 
32,733 
Change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges
 
(1,335) 
(1,815) 
(235) 
(29) 
(3,414) 
Net operating income/(expense)
 
27,339 
19,765 
17,294 
(1,958) 
62,440 
Total operating expenses
 
(15,204) 
(7,906) 
(10,231) 
298 
(33,043) 
Operating profit/(loss)
 
12,135 
11,859 
7,063 
(1,660) 
29,397 
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures less impairment
 
47 
1 
— 
2,864 
2,912 
Constant currency profit before tax
 
12,182 
11,860 
7,063 
1,204 
32,309 
%
%
%
%
%
Share of HSBC’s constant currency profit before tax
 
37.7 
 
36.7 
 
21.9 
 
3.7 
 
100.0 
Constant currency cost efficiency ratio
 
53.0 
 
36.6 
 
58.4 
 
15.4 
 
50.2 
Constant currency balance sheet data
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Loans and advances to customers (net)
 
447,085 
306,926 
169,516 
7,131 
930,658 
Interests in associates and joint ventures
 
558 
25 
108 
28,218 
28,909 
Total external assets
 
890,080 
603,841 
1,388,845 
134,282 
3,017,048 
Customer accounts
 
823,267 
490,475 
340,898 
315 
1,654,955 
2023
Net operating income/(expense) before change in expected credit losses and 
other credit impairment charges1
 
26,848 
22,396 
15,771 
(103) 
64,912 
– external
 
18,669 
23,686 
27,618 
(5,061) 
64,912 
– inter-segment
 
8,179 
(1,290) 
(11,847) 
4,958 
— 
– of which: net interest income/(expense)2
 
19,902 
16,289 
6,860 
(8,899) 
34,152 
Change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges
 
(935) 
(2,006) 
(317) 
(1) 
(3,259) 
Net operating income/(expense)
 
25,913 
20,390 
15,454 
(104) 
61,653 
Total operating expenses
 
(14,352) 
(7,234) 
(9,872) 
(36) 
(31,494) 
Operating profit/(loss)
 
11,561 
13,156 
5,582 
(140) 
30,159 
Share of profit/(loss) in associates and joint ventures3
 
64 
(1) 
— 
(319) 
(256) 
Constant currency profit/(loss) before tax
 
11,625 
13,155 
5,582 
(459) 
29,903 
%
%
%
%
%
Share of HSBC’s constant currency profit before tax
 
38.9 
 
44.0 
 
18.7 
 
(1.6) 
 
100.0 
Constant currency cost efficiency ratio
 
53.5 
 
32.3 
 
62.6 
 
(35.0) 
 
48.5 
Constant currency balance sheet data
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Loans and advances to customers (net)
 
444,856 
301,103 
170,868 
262 
917,089 
Interests in associates and joint ventures
 
539 
23 
107 
26,226 
26,895 
Total external assets
 
915,062 
613,124 
1,298,065 
146,296 
2,972,547 
Customer accounts
 
792,710 
465,095 
321,226 
582 
1,579,613 
Notes on the financial statements
384
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

HSBC constant currency profit before tax and balance sheet data (continued)
2022
Wealth and 
Personal 
Banking
Commercial
Banking
Global
Banking and
Markets
Corporate
Centre
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Net operating income/(expense) before change in expected credit losses and 
other credit impairment charges1
 
20,772 
16,207 
14,542 
(1,934) 
49,587 
– external
 
18,176 
16,834 
18,704 
(4,127) 
49,587 
– inter-segment
 
2,596 
(627) 
(4,162) 
2,193 
— 
– of which: net interest income/(expense)2
 
15,887 
11,584 
4,602 
(2,633) 
29,440 
Change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges
 
(1,160) 
(1,868) 
(578) 
(9) 
(3,615) 
Net operating income/(expense)
 
19,612 
14,339 
13,964 
(1,943) 
45,972 
Total operating expenses
 
(14,141) 
(6,810) 
(9,403) 
(1,875) 
(32,229) 
Operating profit/(loss)
 
5,471 
7,529 
4,561 
(3,818) 
13,743 
Share of profit/(loss) in associates and joint ventures
 
29 
1 
(2) 
2,531 
2,559 
Constant currency profit/(loss) before tax
 
5,500 
7,530 
4,559 
(1,287) 
16,302 
%
%
%
%
%
Share of HSBC’s constant currency profit before tax
 
33.7 
 
46.2 
 
28.0 
 
(7.9) 
 
100.0 
Constant currency cost efficiency ratio
 
68.1 
 
42.0 
 
64.7 
 
(96.9) 
 
65.0 
Constant currency balance sheet data
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Loans and advances to customers (net)
 
425,072 
309,224 
186,653 
350 
921,299 
Interests in associates and joint ventures
 
503 
27 
90 
27,676 
28,296 
Total external assets
 
873,688 
602,624 
1,305,319 
161,872 
2,943,503 
Customer accounts
 
781,881 
462,806 
323,420 
443 
1,568,550 
1 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
2 Net interest expense recognised in Corporate Centre includes $11.4bn (2023: $8.7bn; 2022: $2.5bn) of interest expense in relation to the internal cost to fund 
trading and fair value net assets; and the funding cost of foreign exchange swaps in our Markets Treasury function.
3 Includes an impairment loss of $3.0bn recognised in respect of the Group’s investment in BoCom in 2023.
Reported external net operating income is attributed to countries and territories on the basis of the location of the branch responsible for 
reporting the results or advancing the funds:
2024
2023
2022
$m
$m
$m
Reported external net operating income/(expense) by country/territory1
 
65,854 
66,058 
50,620 
– UK2
 
12,307 
11,027 
11,710 
– Hong Kong
 
20,811 
20,185 
15,454 
– US
 
4,233 
3,816 
3,893 
– France
 
3,804 
4,208 
(177) 
– other countries/territories
 
24,699 
26,822 
19,740 
1 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
2 UK includes HSBC UK Bank plc (ring-fenced bank), HSBC Bank plc (non-ring-fenced bank), the ultimate holding company, HSBC Holdings plc, and the separately 
incorporated group of service companies (‘ServCo Group’).
Constant currency results reconciliation
2024
2023
2022
Reported and 
constant 
currency
Constant 
currency
Currency 
translation
Reported
Constant 
currency
Currency 
translation
Reported
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Revenue1
 
65,854 
64,912 
(1,146) 
66,058 
49,587 
(1,033) 
50,620 
ECL
 
(3,414) 
(3,259) 
188 
(3,447) 
(3,615) 
(31) 
(3,584) 
Operating expenses
 
(33,043) 
(31,494) 
576 
(32,070) 
(32,229) 
472 
(32,701) 
Share of profit/(loss) in associates and 
joint ventures less impairment2
 
2,912 
(256) 
(63) 
(193) 
2,559 
(164) 
2,723 
Profit before tax
 
32,309 
29,903 
(445) 
30,348 
16,302 
(756) 
17,058 
1 Net operating income before change in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges, also referred to as revenue.
2 Includes an impairment loss of $3.0bn recognised in respect of the Group’s investment in BoCom in 2023. 
Constant currency balance sheet reconciliation
2024
2023
2022
Reported and 
constant 
currency
Constant 
currency
Currency 
translation
Reported
Constant 
currency
Currency 
translation
Reported
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Loans and advances to customers (net)
 
930,658 
917,089 
21,446 
938,535 
921,299 
2,262 
923,561 
Interests in associates and joint ventures
 
28,909 
26,895 
449 
27,344 
28,296 
958 
29,254 
Total external assets
 
3,017,048 
2,972,547 
66,130 
3,038,677 
2,943,503 
5,783 
2,949,286 
Customer accounts
 
1,654,955 
1,579,613 
32,034 
1,611,647 
1,568,550 
1,753 
1,570,303 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
385
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Notable items
2024
2023
2022
$m
$m
$m
Year ended 31 Dec
Notable items
Revenue
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs1,2
 
(1,343) 
1,298 
(2,737) 
Fair value movements on financial instruments3
 
— 
14 
(618) 
Restructuring and other related costs
 
— 
— 
(247) 
Disposal losses on Markets Treasury repositioning
 
— 
(977) 
— 
Early redemption of legacy securities
 
(237) 
— 
— 
Operating expenses
Disposals, acquisitions and related costs
 
(199) 
(321) 
(18) 
Restructuring and other related costs4
 
(34) 
136 
(2,882) 
Impairment of interests in associates5
 
— 
(3,000) 
— 
1 Amounts in 2024 include a $1.0bn loss on disposal and a $5.2bn loss on the recycling in foreign currency translation reserve losses and other reserves arising on 
sale of our business in Argentina. This is partly offset by a $4.8bn gain on disposal of our banking business in Canada, inclusive of a $0.3bn gain on the foreign 
exchange hedging of the sales proceeds, the recycling of $0.6bn in foreign currency translation reserve losses and $0.4bn of other reserves losses.
2 Amounts in 2023 include the gain of $1.6bn recognised in respect of the acquisition of SVB UK, as well as the impact of the sale of our retail banking operations 
in France. 
3 Fair value movements on non-qualifying hedges in HSBC Holdings.
4 Amounts in 2024 relate to restructuring provisions recognised in 2024 and reversals of restructuring provisions recognised during 2022. Amounts in 2023 relate 
to reversals of restructuring provisions recognised during 2022.
5 Relates to an impairment loss of $3.0bn recognised in respect of the Group’s investment in BoCom in 2023. 
11 Trading assets
2024
2023
$m
$m
Treasury and other eligible bills
 
32,022 
24,433 
Debt securities
 
97,275 
106,108 
Equity securities
 
155,194 
123,663 
Trading securities
 
284,491 
254,204 
Loans and advances to banks1
 
6,123 
9,761 
Loans and advances to customers1
 
24,228 
25,194 
Year ended 31 Dec
 
314,842 
289,159 
1 Loans and advances to banks and customers include reverse repos, stock borrowing and other accounts.
12 Fair values of financial instruments carried at fair value
Control framework
Fair values are subject to a control framework designed to ensure that they are either determined or validated by a function independent of the 
risk taker.
Where fair values are determined by reference to externally quoted prices or observable pricing inputs to models, independent price 
determination or validation is used. For inactive markets, HSBC sources alternative market information, with greater weight given to 
information that is considered to be more relevant and reliable. Examples of the factors considered are price observability, instrument 
comparability, consistency of data sources, underlying data accuracy and timing of prices.
For fair values determined using valuation models, the control framework includes development or validation by independent support functions 
of the model logic, inputs, model outputs and adjustments. Valuation models are subject to a process of due diligence before becoming 
operational and are calibrated against external market data on an ongoing basis. 
Changes in fair value are generally subject to a profit and loss analysis process and are disaggregated into high-level categories including 
portfolio changes, market movements and other fair value adjustments.
The majority of financial instruments measured at fair value are in GBM. GBM’s fair value governance structure comprises its Finance function, 
Valuation Committees and a Valuation Committee Review Group. Finance is responsible for establishing procedures governing valuation and 
ensuring fair values are in compliance with accounting standards. The fair values are reviewed by the Valuation Committees, which consist of 
independent support functions. These committees are overseen by the Valuation Committee Review Group, which considers all material 
subjective valuations.
Financial liabilities measured at fair value
In certain circumstances, HSBC records its own debt in issue at fair value, based on quoted prices in an active market for the specific 
instrument. When quoted market prices are unavailable, the own debt in issue is valued using valuation techniques, the inputs for which are 
either based on quoted prices in an inactive market for the instrument or are estimated by comparison with quoted prices in an active market 
for similar instruments. In both cases, the fair value includes the effect of applying the credit spread that is appropriate to HSBC’s liabilities. The 
change in fair value of issued debt securities attributable to the Group’s own credit spread is computed as follows: for each security at each 
reporting date, an externally verifiable price is obtained or a price is derived using credit spreads for similar securities for the same issuer. Then, 
using discounted cash flow, each security is valued using an appropriate market discount curve. The difference in the valuations is attributable 
to the Group’s own credit spread. This methodology is applied consistently across all securities.
Notes on the financial statements
386
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Structured notes issued and certain other hybrid instruments are reported as financial liabilities designated at fair value. The credit spread 
applied to these instruments is derived from the spreads at which HSBC issues structured notes. 
Gains and losses arising from changes in the credit spread of liabilities issued by HSBC, recorded in other comprehensive income, reverse over 
the contractual life of the debt, provided that the debt is not repaid at a premium or a discount.
Fair value hierarchy
Fair values of financial assets and liabilities are determined according to the following hierarchy:
–
Level 1 – valuation technique using quoted market price. These are financial instruments with quoted prices for identical instruments in 
active markets that HSBC can access at the measurement date.
–
Level 2 – valuation technique using observable inputs. These are financial instruments with quoted prices for similar instruments in active 
markets or quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in inactive markets and financial instruments valued using models where all 
significant inputs are observable.
–
Level 3 – valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs. These are financial instruments valued using valuation techniques where 
one or more significant inputs are unobservable.
Financial instruments carried at fair value and bases of valuation
2024
2023
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Recurring fair value measurements at 31 Dec
Assets
Trading assets
 
236,593 
71,574 
6,675 
314,842 
202,020 
82,833 
4,306 
289,159 
Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily 
measured at fair value through profit or loss
 
39,331 
56,694 
19,744 
115,769 
27,030 
63,825 
19,788 
110,643 
Derivatives
 
1,859 
264,629 
2,149 
268,637 
931 
226,714 
2,069 
229,714 
Financial investments
 
258,371 
78,088 
2,734 
339,193 
215,228 
76,591 
2,618 
294,437 
Liabilities
Trading liabilities
 
42,038 
23,160 
784 
65,982 
53,354 
19,318 
478 
73,150 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value
 
2,152 
127,458 
9,117 
138,727 
1,266 
129,232 
10,928 
141,426 
Derivatives
 
1,088 
260,518 
2,842 
264,448 
1,918 
230,285 
2,569 
234,772 
 
The table below provides the fair value levelling of assets held for sale and liabilities of disposal groups that have been classified as held for sale 
in accordance with IFRS 5. For further details, see Note 23.
Financial instruments carried at fair value and bases of valuation – assets and liabilities held for sale
2024
2023
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
Level 1
Level 2
Level 3
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Recurring fair value measurements at 31 Dec
Assets
Trading assets
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
2,403 
61 
— 
2,465 
Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily 
measured at fair value through profit or loss
 
2,967 
9,018 
2,575 
14,560 
— 
15 
49 
64 
Derivatives
 
— 
36 
— 
36 
— 
528 
— 
528 
Financial investments
 
2,651 
5,345 
504 
8,500 
9,357 
— 
28 
9,385 
Liabilities
Trading liabilities
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
1,352 
64 
— 
1,417 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value
 
— 
130 
— 
130 
— 
2,370 
— 
2,370 
Derivatives
 
— 
19 
— 
19 
— 
615 
— 
615 
Transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair values
Assets
Liabilities
Financial
investments
Trading
assets
Designated and otherwise
mandatorily measured 
at fair value
Derivatives
Trading
liabilities
Designated
at fair 
value
Derivatives
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
At 31 Dec 2024
Transfers from Level 1 to Level 2
 
13,511 
9,246 
1,540 
— 
191 
— 
— 
Transfers from Level 2 to Level 1
 
10,752 
6,060 
3,042 
— 
159 
— 
— 
At 31 Dec 2023
Transfers from Level 1 to Level 2
 
13,200 
8,066 
1,709 
— 
54 
— 
— 
Transfers from Level 2 to Level 1
 
9,975 
5,758 
2,477 
— 
309 
— 
— 
 
Transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy are deemed to occur at the end of each quarterly reporting period. Transfers are primarily 
attributable to changes in price transparency and in the assessment of observability.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
387
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Fair value adjustments
Fair value adjustments take into consideration additional factors not incorporated within the primary product valuation model that would 
otherwise be considered by a market participant. Adjustments are calculated using model infrastructure including those within primary valuation 
systems. We classify fair value adjustments as either ‘risk-related’ or ‘model-related’. The majority of these adjustments relate to MSS. 
Movements in the amount of fair value adjustments do not necessarily translate in equivalent movements of profits or losses within the 
income statement, as these movements can be compensated by other related profits or loss effects. For example, as models are enhanced, 
fair value adjustments may no longer be required. Similarly, fair value adjustments will decrease when the related positions are unwound, but 
this may not result in profit or loss.
Fair value adjustments
2024
2023
GBM
Corporate
Centre
GBM
Corporate
Centre
$m
$m
$m
$m
Type of adjustment
Risk-related 
 
634 
35 
692 
41 
– bid-offer 
 
366 
2 
414 
— 
– uncertainty 
 
98 
3 
75 
3 
– credit valuation adjustment
 
126 
27 
164 
35 
– debit valuation adjustment
 
(24) 
— 
(54) 
— 
– funding fair value adjustment
 
68 
3 
93 
3 
Model-related 
 
50 
— 
63 
— 
– model limitation 
 
50 
— 
63 
— 
Inception profit (Day 1 P&L reserves)
 
92 
— 
86 
— 
At 31 Dec
 
776 
35 
841 
41 
 
The net reduction in fair value adjustments was predominantly driven by changes to exposure, and tightening of credit and liquidity market 
spreads.
Bid-offer
IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’ requires the use of the price within the bid-offer spread that is most representative of fair value. Valuation 
models will typically generate mid-market values. The bid-offer adjustment reflects the extent to which bid-offer costs would be incurred if 
substantially all residual net portfolio market risks were closed using available hedging instruments or by disposing of or unwinding the position.
Uncertainty
Certain model inputs may be less readily determinable from market data and/or the choice of model itself may be more subjective. In these 
circumstances, an adjustment may be necessary to reflect the likelihood that market participants would adopt more conservative values for 
uncertain parameters and/or model assumptions than those used in HSBC’s valuation model.
Credit and debit valuation adjustments 
The credit valuation adjustment (‘CVA’) is an adjustment to the valuation of over-the-counter (‘OTC’) derivative contracts to reflect the possibility 
that the counterparty may default and that HSBC may not receive the full market value of the transactions.
The debit valuation adjustment (‘DVA’) is an adjustment to the valuation of OTC derivative contracts to reflect the possibility that HSBC may 
default, and that it may not pay the full market value of the transactions. The DVA considers the overlap with the funding fair value adjustment. 
HSBC calculates a separate CVA and DVA for each legal entity, and for each counterparty to which the entity has exposure. With the exception 
of central clearing parties, all third-party counterparties are included in the CVA and DVA calculations, and these adjustments are not netted 
across Group entities. 
HSBC calculates the CVA by applying the probability of default (‘PD’) of the counterparty, conditional on the non-default of HSBC, to HSBC’s 
expected positive exposure to the counterparty and multiplying the result by the loss expected in the event of default. Conversely, HSBC calculates 
the DVA by applying the PD of HSBC, conditional on the non-default of the counterparty, to the expected positive exposure of the counterparty to 
HSBC and multiplying the result by the loss expected in the event of default. Both calculations are performed over the life of the potential exposure.
For most products HSBC uses a simulation methodology, which incorporates a range of potential exposures over the life of the portfolio, to 
calculate the expected positive exposure to a counterparty. The simulation methodology includes credit mitigants, such as counterparty netting 
agreements and collateral agreements with the counterparty.
The methodologies do not, in general, account for ‘wrong-way risk’. Wrong-way risk is an adverse correlation between the counterparty’s probability of 
default and the mark-to-market value of the underlying transaction. The risk can either be general, perhaps related to the currency of the issuer country, 
or specific to the transaction concerned. When there is significant wrong-way risk, a trade-specific approach is applied to reflect this risk in the valuation.
Funding fair value adjustment
The funding fair value adjustment (‘FFVA’) is calculated by applying future market funding spreads to the expected future funding exposure of 
any uncollateralised component of the OTC derivative portfolio. The expected future funding exposure is calculated by a simulation 
methodology, where available, and is adjusted for events that may terminate the exposure, such as the default of HSBC or the counterparty. 
Model limitation
Models used for portfolio valuation purposes may be based upon a simplified set of assumptions that do not capture all current and future 
material market characteristics. In these circumstances, model limitation adjustments are adopted.
Notes on the financial statements
388
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Inception profit (Day 1 P&L reserves)
Inception profit adjustments are adopted when the fair value estimated by a valuation model is based on one or more significant unobservable 
inputs. The accounting for inception profit adjustments is discussed in Note 1.
Fair value valuation bases
Financial instruments measured at fair value using a valuation technique with significant unobservable inputs – Level 3
Assets
Liabilities
Financial 
investments
Trading 
assets
Designated and 
otherwise mandatorily 
measured at fair value 
through profit or loss
Derivatives
Total
Trading 
liabilities
Designated 
at fair 
value Derivatives
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Private equity including 
strategic investments 
 
552 
1 
17,705 
— 18,258 
— 
1 
— 
1 
Asset-backed securities 
 
182 
198 
— 
— 
380 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Structured notes 
 
— 
— 
3 
— 
3 
— 
9,113 
— 
9,113 
Other derivatives 
 
— 
— 
— 
2,149 
2,149 
— 
— 
2,842 
2,842 
Other portfolios 
 
2,000 
6,476 
2,036 
— 10,512 
784 
3 
— 
787 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
2,734 
6,675 
19,744 
2,149 31,302 
784 
9,117 
2,842 12,743 
Private equity including 
strategic investments 
 
507 
7 
17,640 
— 18,154 
— 
1 
— 
1 
Asset-backed securities 
 
309 
128 
8 
— 
445 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Structured notes 
 
— 
— 
3 
— 
3 
— 
10,331 
— 10,331 
Other derivatives 
 
— 
— 
— 
2,069 
2,069 
— 
— 
2,569 
2,569 
Other portfolios 
 
1,802 
4,171 
2,137 
— 
8,110 
478 
596 
— 
1,074 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
2,618 
4,306 
19,788 
2,069 28,781 
478 
10,928 
2,569 13,975 
 
Level 3 instruments are present in both ongoing and legacy businesses. Loans held for securitisation, derivatives with monolines, certain ‘other 
derivatives’ and predominantly all Level 3 asset-backed securities are legacy positions. HSBC has the capability to hold these positions.
Private equity including strategic investments
The fair value of a private equity investment (including strategic investments) is estimated on the basis of an analysis of the investee’s financial 
position and results, risk profile, prospects and other factors; by reference to market valuations for similar entities quoted in an active market; 
the price at which similar companies have changed ownership; or from published net asset values (‘NAV’) received. If necessary, adjustments 
are made to the NAV of funds to obtain the best estimate of fair value.
Asset-backed securities
While quoted market prices are generally used to determine the fair value of the asset-backed securities (‘ABSs’), valuation models are used to 
substantiate the reliability of the limited market data available and to identify whether any adjustments to quoted market prices are required. 
For certain ABSs, such as residential mortgage-backed securities, the valuation uses an industry standard model with assumptions relating to 
prepayment speeds, default rates and loss severity based on collateral type, and performance, as appropriate. The valuations output is 
benchmarked for consistency against observable data for securities of a similar nature.
Structured notes
The fair value of Level 3 structured notes is derived from the fair value of the underlying debt security, and the fair value of the embedded derivative is 
determined as described in the paragraph below on derivatives. These structured notes comprise principally equity-linked notes issued by HSBC, 
which provide the counterparty with a return linked to the performance of equity securities and other portfolios. Examples of the unobservable 
parameters include long-dated equity volatilities and correlations between equity prices, and interest and foreign exchange rates.
Derivatives
OTC derivative valuation models calculate the present value of expected future cash flows, based upon ‘no arbitrage’ principles. For many 
vanilla derivative products, the modelling approaches used are standard across the industry. For more complex derivative products, there may 
be some differences in market practice. Inputs to valuation models are determined from observable market data wherever possible, including 
prices available from exchanges, dealers, brokers or providers of consensus pricing. Certain inputs may not be observable in the market 
directly, but can be determined from observable prices via model calibration procedures or estimated from historical data or other sources.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
389
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Reconciliation of fair value measurements in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy
Movement in Level 3 financial instruments
Assets
Liabilities
Financial 
investments
Trading 
assets
Designated and 
otherwise 
mandatorily 
measured at fair 
value through 
profit or loss
Derivatives
Trading 
liabilities
Designated 
at fair 
value
Derivatives
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
At 1 Jan 2024
 
2,618 
4,306 
19,788 
2,069 
478 
10,928 
2,569 
Total gains/(losses) recognised in profit or loss 
 
(9) 
280 
896 
1,037 
18 
496 
1,268 
– net income/(losses) from financial instruments 
held for trading or managed on a fair value basis
 
— 
280 
— 
1,037 
18 
496 
1,268 
– net income from assets and liabilities of insurance 
businesses, including related derivatives, 
measured at fair value through profit or loss
 
— 
— 
684 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– changes in fair value of other financial instruments 
mandatorily measured at fair value through profit 
or loss
 
— 
— 
212 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– gains less losses from financial investments at fair 
value through other comprehensive income
 
(9) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Total gains/(losses) recognised in other 
comprehensive income (‘OCI’)1
 
(78) 
(115) 
(39) 
(36) 
(18) 
(45) 
(53) 
– financial investments: fair value gains/(losses)
 
18 
— 
— 
— 
— 
33 
— 
– exchange differences 
 
(96) 
(115) 
(39) 
(36) 
(18) 
(78) 
(53) 
Purchases 
 
1,670 
4,170 
6,261 
— 
924 
— 
— 
New issuances 
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
6,521 
— 
Sales 
 
(97) 
(1,477) 
(649) 
— 
(295) 
— 
— 
Settlements2 
 
(1,011) 
(967) 
(6,476) 
(897) 
(307) 
(4,750) 
(568) 
Transfers out3 
 
(438) 
(429) 
(278) 
(777) 
(29) 
(6,048) 
(1,346) 
Transfers in3
 
79 
907 
241 
753 
13 
2,015 
972 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
2,734 
6,675 
19,744 
2,149 
784 
9,117 
2,842 
Unrealised gains/(losses) recognised in profit or loss 
relating to assets and liabilities held at 31 Dec 2024
 
— 
(150) 
11 
(1,377) 
(6) 
(94) 
(1,343) 
– net income/(losses) from financial instruments 
held for trading or managed on a fair value basis
 
— 
(150) 
— 
(1,377) 
(6) 
— 
(1,343) 
– changes in fair value of other financial instruments 
mandatorily measured at fair value through profit 
or loss
 
— 
— 
11 
— 
— 
(94) 
— 
 
At 1 Jan 2023
 
2,961 
4,817 
17,407 
1,964 
474 
10,432 
2,920 
Total gains/(losses) recognised in profit or loss 
 
(44) 
266 
921 
692 
75 
97 
910 
– net income/(losses) from financial instruments 
held for trading or managed on a fair value basis
 
— 
266 
— 
692 
75 
97 
910 
– net income from assets and liabilities of insurance 
businesses, including related derivatives, 
measured at fair value through profit or loss
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– changes in fair value of other financial instruments 
mandatorily measured at fair value through profit 
or loss
 
— 
— 
921 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– gains less losses from financial investments at fair 
value through other comprehensive income
 
(44) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Total gains/(losses) recognised in other 
comprehensive income (‘OCI’)1 
 
28 
108 
87 
81 
24 
523 
111 
– financial investments: fair value gains/(losses)
 
(44) 
— 
— 
— 
— 
335 
— 
– exchange differences 
 
72 
108 
87 
81 
24 
188 
111 
Purchases 
 
353 
2,276 
3,555 
— 
291 
— 
— 
New issuances 
 
— 
2 
— 
— 
2 
5,389 
— 
Sales 
 
(290) 
(2,478) 
(658) 
— 
(320) 
(2) 
— 
Settlements 
 
(352) 
(872) 
(1,886) 
(1,018) 
(74) 
(3,258) 
(1,565) 
Transfers out 
 
(662) 
(922) 
(156) 
(240) 
(45) 
(2,881) 
(358) 
Transfers in 
 
624 
1,109 
518 
590 
51 
628 
551 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
2,618 
4,306 
19,788 
2,069 
478 
10,928 
2,569 
Unrealised gains/(losses) recognised in profit or loss 
relating to assets and liabilities held at 31 Dec 2023
 
— 
(152) 
82 
737 
— 
(433) 
(903) 
– net income/(losses) from financial instruments 
held for trading or managed on a fair value basis
 
— 
(152) 
— 
737 
— 
— 
(903) 
– changes in fair value of other financial instruments 
mandatorily measured at fair value through profit 
or loss
 
— 
— 
82 
— 
— 
(433) 
— 
1 Included in ‘financial investments: fair value gains/(losses)’ in the current year and ‘exchange differences’ in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income.
2 Includes $3.1bn decrease from classification of the assets of our French Life Insurance business as assets held for sale.
3 Includes $4.4bn of transfers out and $1.5bn of transfers in relating to enhancement of observability assessments on equity structured notes.
Transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy are deemed to occur at the end of each quarterly reporting period. Transfers are primarily 
attributable to changes in price transparency and in the assessment of observability.
Notes on the financial statements
390
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Effect of changes in significant unobservable assumptions to reasonably 
possible alternatives
Sensitivity of fair values to reasonably possible alternative assumptions
2024
2023
Reflected in profit or loss
Reflected in OCI
Reflected in profit or loss
Reflected in OCI
Favourable
changes
Unfavourable
changes
Favourable
changes
Unfavourable
changes
Favourable
changes
Unfavourable
changes
Favourable
changes
Unfavourable
changes
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Derivatives, trading assets and trading 
liabilities1 
 
481 
(313) 
— 
— 
492 
(531) 
— 
— 
Financial assets and liabilities designated 
and otherwise mandatorily measured at 
fair value through profit or loss
 
1,434 
(1,141) 
— 
— 
1,092 
(1,100) 
— 
— 
Financial investments
 
21 
(21) 
47 
(50) 
13 
(12) 
61 
(66) 
At 31 Dec
 
1,936 
(1,475) 
47 
(50) 
1,597 
(1,643) 
61 
(66) 
1 ‘Derivatives, trading assets and trading liabilities’ are presented as one category to reflect the manner in which these instruments are risk-managed. 
The sensitivity analysis for certain private equity positions has been enhanced in order to reduce dependency on historical observations and 
focus on current valuation uncertainty, resulting in some increases in favourable sensitivities.
The sensitivity analysis aims to measure a range of fair values consistent with the application of a 95% confidence interval. Methodologies take 
account of the nature of the valuation technique employed, as well as the availability and reliability of observable proxy and historical data.
When the fair value of a financial instrument is affected by more than one unobservable assumption, the above table reflects the most 
favourable or the most unfavourable change from varying the assumptions individually.
Key unobservable inputs to Level 3 financial instruments
The following table lists key unobservable inputs to Level 3 financial instruments and provides the range of those inputs at 31 December 2024.
Quantitative information about significant unobservable inputs in Level 3 valuations 
Fair value
2024
2023
Assets
Liabilities Key valuation
techniques
Key unobservable
inputs
Full range
of inputs
Full range
of inputs
$m
$m
Lower
Higher
Lower
Higher
Private equity including strategic 
investments2
 
18,258 
1 Price – Net asset value
Current Value/Cost
0
291
See footnote 2
Asset-backed securities 
 
380 
— 
– collateralised loan/debt obligation
100 
— Market proxy 
Price
0
97
0
94
– other ABSs 
 
280 
— Market proxy
Price
0
248
0
220
Structured notes 
 
3 
9,113 
– equity-linked notes 
 
3 
5,739 Model – Option model 
Equity volatility 
6%
70%
6%
154%
Model – Option model 
Equity correlation 
15%
100%
34%
100%
– Foreign exchange-linked notes 
 
— 
1,833 Model – Option model 
Foreign exchange 
volatility 
3%
35%
1%
34%
– other structured notes 
 
— 
1,541 
Derivatives 
 
2,149 
2,842  
 
– interest rate derivatives
 
1,102 
1,066  
 
 securitisation swaps 
 
196 
186 Model – Discounted cash flow
Prepayment rate 
5%
10%
5%
10%
 long-dated swaptions 
 
71 
76 Model – Option model 
Interest rate 
volatility 
9%
30%
11%
37%
 other interest rate derivatives
 
835 
804 
– Foreign exchange derivatives
 
202 
212 
 Foreign exchange options 
 
154 
174 Model – Option model 
Foreign exchange 
volatility
1%
26%
1%
31%
 other foreign exchange derivatives
 
48 
38 
– equity derivatives
 
460 
638 
 long-dated single stock options 
 
145 
166 Model – Option model 
Equity volatility
6%
118%
6%
110%
 other equity derivatives
 
315 
472 
– credit derivatives
 
376 
922 
 total return swaps
 
349 
847 Market proxy
Price
0
104
0
104
 other credit derivatives
 
27 
75 
– other derivatives
 
9 
4 
Other portfolios 
 
10,512 
787 
– repurchase agreements
 
1,739 
742 Model – Discounted cash flow
Interest rate curve
0%
26%
3%
8%
– bonds
 
4,300 
27 Market proxy
Price
0
140
0
101
– other1
 
4,473 
18 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
31,302 
12,743 
1 ‘Other’ includes a range of asset holdings including loans and deposits, syndicated loans and infrastructure debt.
2 ‘Private equity including strategic investments’ includes private equity, private credit and private equity fund, primarily held as part of our Insurance business and 
for strategic investments. The analysis for private equity positions has been enhanced with the range of key unobservable inputs now quoted.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
391
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The range of values above shows the highest and lowest unobservable inputs that have been used to value significant Level 3 exposures and 
reflects the diversity of the underlying financial instruments in scope and subsequent differentiation in pricing.
Private equity including strategic investments
The ‘private equity’ holdings include private equity investments and private equity funds held as limited partners. The key unobservable input is 
the current value of the underlying positions, determined using valuation techniques in line with the International Capital Valuation Guidelines. 
The inputs represented are an appropriate range of inputs normalised across different exposure types.
Prepayment rates
Prepayment rates are a measure of the anticipated future speed at which a loan portfolio will be repaid in advance of the due date. They vary 
according to the nature of the loan portfolio and expectations of future market conditions, and may be estimated using a variety of evidence, 
such as prepayment rates implied from proxy observable security prices, current or historical prepayment rates and macroeconomic modelling.
Market proxy
Market proxy pricing may be used for an instrument when specific market pricing is not available but there is evidence from instruments with 
common characteristics. In some cases it might be possible to identify a specific proxy, but more generally evidence across a wider range of 
instruments will be used to understand the factors that influence current market pricing and the manner of that influence.
Volatility
Volatility is a measure of the anticipated future variability of a market price. It varies by underlying reference market price, and by strike and 
maturity of the option. Certain volatilities, typically those of a longer-dated nature, are unobservable and are estimated from observable data. 
The range of unobservable volatilities reflects the wide variation in volatility inputs by reference market price.
Correlation
Correlation is a measure of the inter-relationship between two market variables and is expressed as a number between minus one and one. It 
is used to value more complex instruments where the payout is dependent upon more than one market variable. There is a wide range of 
instruments for which correlation is an input, and consequently a wide range of both same-asset correlations and cross-asset correlations is 
used. In general, the range of same-asset correlations will be narrower than the range of cross-asset correlations.
Unobservable correlations may be estimated based upon a range of evidence, including consensus pricing services, HSBC trade prices, proxy 
correlations and examination of historical price relationships. The range of unobservable correlations quoted in the table reflects the wide 
variation in correlation inputs by market variable pair.
Credit spread
Credit spread is the premium over a benchmark interest rate required by the market to accept lower credit quality. In a discounted cash flow 
model, the credit spread increases the discount factors applied to future cash flows, thereby reducing the value of an asset. Credit spreads may 
be implied from market prices and may not be observable in more illiquid markets.
Inter-relationships between key unobservable inputs
Key unobservable inputs to Level 3 financial instruments may not be independent of each other. As described above, market variables may be 
correlated. This correlation typically reflects the manner in which different markets tend to react to macroeconomic or other events. 
Furthermore, the effect of changing market variables on the HSBC portfolio will depend on HSBC’s net risk position in respect of each variable.
HSBC Holdings
Basis of valuing HSBC Holdings’ financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value
2024
2023
Level 1
Level 2
Total
Level 1
Level 2
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Recurring fair value measurement
Assets at 31 Dec
Trading assets
 
709 
— 
709 
— 
— 
— 
Financial assets with HSBC undertakings designated and 
otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value
 
— 
61,286 
61,286 
— 
59,879 
59,879 
Derivatives
 
— 
3,054 
3,054 
— 
3,344 
3,344 
Liabilities at 31 Dec
Financial liabilities designated at fair value
 
— 
41,582 
41,582 
— 
43,638 
43,638 
Derivatives
 
— 
5,340 
5,340 
— 
6,090 
6,090 
 
Notes on the financial statements
392
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

13 Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value
Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value and bases of valuation
Fair value
Carrying
amount
Quoted market
price Level 1
Observable
inputs Level 2
Significant
unobservable
inputs Level 3
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
At 31 Dec 2024
Assets
Loans and advances to banks
 
102,039 
— 
101,007 
1,048 
102,055 
Loans and advances to customers1
 
930,658 
— 
11,435 
906,208 
917,643 
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
 
252,549 
— 
252,598 
— 
252,598 
Financial investments – at amortised cost
 
153,973 
120,843 
29,493 
724 
151,060 
Liabilities
Deposits by banks
 
73,997 
— 
74,025 
— 
74,025 
Customer accounts
 
1,654,955 
— 
1,655,151 
— 
1,655,151 
Repurchase agreements – non-trading
 
180,880 
— 
180,873 
— 
180,873 
Debt securities in issue
 
105,785 
— 
105,689 
954 
106,643 
Subordinated liabilities
 
25,958 
— 
28,262 
— 
28,262 
At 31 Dec 2023
Assets
Loans and advances to banks
 
112,902 
2 
111,263 
1,479 
112,744 
Loans and advances to customers
 
938,535 
— 
13,258 
911,124 
924,382 
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
 
252,217 
— 
252,243 
— 
252,243 
Financial investments – at amortised cost
 
148,326 
115,383 
30,765 
440 
146,588 
Liabilities
Deposits by banks
 
73,163 
— 
73,176 
— 
73,176 
Customer accounts
 
1,611,647 
— 
1,611,795 
— 
1,611,795 
Repurchase agreements – non-trading
 
172,100 
— 
172,081 
— 
172,081 
Debt securities in issue
 
93,917 
— 
93,196 
706 
93,902 
Subordinated liabilities
 
24,954 
— 
27,151 
— 
27,151 
1 Includes retained portfolio of French home and other loans following the sale of retail banking operations in France, with carrying amount of $6.9bn (2023: 
$7.9bn). We reclassified the portfolio to a hold-to-collect-and-sell business model from 1 January 2025 and will measure it prospectively from the first quarter of 
2025 at fair value through other comprehensive income. We expect to recognise an estimated $1bn fair value pre-tax loss in other comprehensive income on 
the remeasurement of these financial instruments. The valuation of this portfolio of loans may be substantially different in the event of a sale due to entity and 
deal-specific factors, including funding costs and the value of customer relationships (refer Note 23 for details).
Fair values of financial instruments not carried at fair value and bases of valuation – assets and disposal groups held for sale
Fair value
Carrying 
amount
Quoted market 
price Level 1
Observable 
inputs Level 2
Significant 
unobservable 
inputs Level 3
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
At 31 Dec 2024
Assets
Loans and advances to banks
 
144 
— 
144 
— 
144 
Loans and advances to customers
 
977 
— 
11 
966 
977 
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Financial investments – at amortised cost
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Liabilities
Deposits by banks
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Customer accounts
 
5,399 
— 
5,399 
— 
5,399 
Repurchase agreements – non-trading
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Debt securities in issue
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Subordinated liabilities
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
At 31 Dec 2023
Assets
Loans and advances to banks
 
10,487 
— 
10,487 
— 
10,487 
Loans and advances to customers
 
73,376 
— 
90 
72,200 
72,290 
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
 
2,723 
— 
2,723 
— 
2,723 
Financial investments – at amortised cost
 
7,624 
7,530 
— 
5 
7,535 
Liabilities
Deposits by banks
 
78 
— 
78 
— 
78 
Customer accounts
 
85,950 
— 
86,475 
— 
86,475 
Repurchase agreements – non-trading
 
2,768 
— 
2,768 
— 
2,768 
Debt securities in issue
 
9,084 
— 
8,820 
— 
8,820 
Subordinated liabilities
 
8 
— 
7 
— 
7 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
393
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Other financial instruments not carried at fair value are typically short term in nature and reprice to current market rates frequently. Accordingly, 
their carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value. They include cash and balances at central banks, Hong Kong Government 
certificates of indebtedness and Hong Kong currency notes in circulation, all of which are measured at amortised cost.
Valuation
Fair value is an estimate of the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between 
market participants at the measurement date. This may be different from the theoretical economic value attributed from an instrument’s cash 
flows over its expected future life. Our valuation methodologies and assumptions in determining fair values for which no observable market 
prices are available may differ from those of other companies.
Loans and advances to banks and customers
To determine the fair value of loans and advances to banks and customers, loans are segregated into portfolios of similar characteristics. Fair 
values are based on observable market transactions, when available. When they are unavailable, fair values are estimated using valuation 
models incorporating a range of input assumptions. These assumptions may include: value estimates from third-party brokers reflecting overthe-counter trading activity; forward-looking discounted cash flow models, taking account of expected customer prepayment rates, using 
assumptions that HSBC believes are consistent with those that would be used by market participants in valuing such loans; recent origination 
pricing for similar loans; and trading inputs from other market participants including observed primary and secondary trades. From time to time, 
we may engage a third-party valuation specialist to measure the fair value of a pool of loans.
The fair value of loans reflects expected credit losses at the balance sheet date and estimates of market participants’ expectations of credit 
losses over the life of the loans, and the fair value effect of repricing between origination and the balance sheet date. For credit-impaired loans, 
fair value is estimated by discounting the future cash flows over the time period they are expected to be recovered.
Financial investments
The fair values of listed financial investments are determined using bid market prices. The fair values of unlisted financial investments are 
determined using valuation techniques that incorporate the prices and future earnings streams of equivalent quoted securities.
Deposits by banks and customer accounts
The fair values of on-demand deposits are approximated by their carrying amount. For deposits with longer-term maturities, fair values are 
estimated using discounted cash flows, applying current rates offered for deposits of similar remaining maturities.
Debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities
Fair values in debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities are determined using quoted market prices at the balance sheet date where 
available, or by reference to quoted market prices for similar instruments.
Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
Carrying amounts of repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements that are held on a non-trading basis provide approximate fair values. This 
is due to the fact that balances are generally short dated.
HSBC Holdings 
The methods used by HSBC Holdings to determine fair values of financial instruments for the purposes of measurement and disclosure are 
described above.
Fair values of HSBC Holdings’ financial instruments not carried at fair value on the balance sheet
2024
2023
Carrying amount
Fair value1
Carrying amount
Fair value1
$m
$m
$m
$m
Assets at 31 Dec
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 
 
37,677 
38,359 
27,354 
27,878 
Financial investments – at amortised cost
 
10,328 
10,335 
19,558 
19,531 
Liabilities at 31 Dec
Debt securities in issue 
 
64,320 
65,123 
65,239 
65,172 
Subordinated liabilities 
 
23,548 
25,911 
24,439 
26,651 
1 Fair values (other than Financial investments which are Level 1) were determined using valuation techniques with observable inputs (Level 2).
Notes on the financial statements
394
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

14 Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair 
value through profit or loss 
2024
2023
Designated at 
fair value
Mandatorily 
measured at 
fair value
Total
Designated 
at fair value
Mandatorily 
measured at 
fair value
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Securities
 
2,406 
104,093 
106,499 
2,353 
101,152 
103,505 
– treasury and other eligible bills
 
732 
393 
1,125 
695 
724 
1,419 
– debt securities 
 
1,674 
59,904 
61,578 
1,658 
60,045 
61,703 
– equity securities 
 
— 
43,796 
43,796 
— 
40,383 
40,383 
Loans and advances to banks and customers
 
951 
6,120 
7,071 
371 
5,495 
5,866 
Other
 
— 
2,199 
2,199 
— 
1,272 
1,272 
At 31 Dec
 
3,357 
112,412 
115,769 
2,724 
107,919 
110,643 
 
15
Derivatives
Notional contract amounts and fair values of derivatives by product contract type held by HSBC
Notional contract amount
Fair value – Assets
Fair value – Liabilities
Trading
Hedging
Trading
Hedging
Total
Trading
Hedging
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Foreign exchange 
 
11,706,591 
82,161 
142,055 
2,738 
144,793 
133,910 
75 
133,985 
Interest rate 
 
17,316,173 
406,109 
209,794 
4,790 
214,584 
212,980 
4,930 
217,910 
Equities 
 
768,732 
— 
17,116 
— 
17,116 
20,643 
— 
20,643 
Credit 
 
143,136 
— 
1,756 
— 
1,756 
1,769 
— 
1,769 
Commodity and other 
 
118,180 
— 
3,134 
— 
3,134 
2,887 
— 
2,887 
Gross total fair values
 
30,052,812 
488,270 
373,855 
7,528 
381,383 
372,189 
5,005 
377,194 
Offset (Note 31)
 
(112,746) 
 
(112,746) 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
30,052,812 
488,270 
373,855 
7,528 
268,637 
372,189 
5,005 
264,448 
Foreign exchange 
 
9,463,768 
63,547 
99,014 
935 
99,949 
99,949 
780 
100,729 
Interest rate 
 
14,853,397 
361,312 
223,534 
5,119 
228,653 
225,443 
4,080 
229,523 
Equities 
 
677,149 
— 
14,427 
— 
14,427 
17,603 
— 
17,603 
Credit 
 
153,606 
— 
1,351 
— 
1,351 
1,861 
— 
1,861 
Commodity and other 
 
90,007 
— 
1,820 
— 
1,820 
1,542 
— 
1,542 
Gross total fair values
 
25,237,927 
424,859 
340,146 
6,054 
346,200 
346,398 
4,860 
351,258 
Offset (Note 31)
 
(116,486) 
 
(116,486) 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
25,237,927 
424,859 
340,146 
6,054 
229,714 
346,398 
4,860 
234,772 
 
The notional contract amounts of derivatives held for trading purposes and derivatives designated in hedge accounting relationships indicate the 
nominal value of transactions outstanding at the balance sheet date. They do not represent amounts at risk.
Notional contract amounts and fair values of derivatives by product contract type held by HSBC Holdings with subsidiaries
Notional contract amount
Assets
Liabilities
Trading
Hedging
Trading
Hedging
Total
Trading
Hedging
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Foreign exchange 
 
51,437 
— 
796 
— 
796 
1,015 
— 
1,015 
Interest rate 
 
30,535 
90,074 
1,544 
714 
2,258 
487 
3,838 
4,325 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
81,972 
90,074 
2,340 
714 
3,054 
1,502 
3,838 
5,340 
Foreign exchange 
 
66,711 
— 
486 
— 
486 
1,705 
— 
1,705 
Interest rate 
 
33,480 
92,268 
1,730 
1,128 
2,858 
747 
3,638 
4,385 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
100,191 
92,268 
2,216 
1,128 
3,344 
2,452 
3,638 
6,090 
Use of derivatives
For details regarding the use of derivatives, see page 218 under ‘Market risk’.
Trading derivatives
Most of HSBC’s derivative transactions relate to sales and trading activities. Sales activities include the structuring and marketing of derivative 
products to customers to enable them to take, transfer, modify or reduce current or expected risks. Trading activities include market-making 
and risk management. Market-making entails quoting bid and offer prices to other market participants for the purpose of generating revenue 
based on spread and volume. Risk management activity is undertaken to manage the risk arising from client transactions, with the principal 
purpose of retaining client margin. Other derivatives classified as held for trading include non-qualifying hedging derivatives.
Substantially all of HSBC Holdings’ derivatives entered into with subsidiaries are managed in conjunction with financial liabilities.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
395
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Hedge accounting derivatives 
HSBC applies hedge accounting to manage the following risks: interest rate and foreign exchange risks. Further details of how these risks arise 
and how they are managed by the Group can be found in the ‘Risk review’.
Hedged risk components 
HSBC designates a portion of cash flows of a financial instrument or a group of financial instruments for a specific interest rate or foreign 
currency risk component in a fair value or cash flow hedge. The designated risks and portions are either contractually specified or otherwise 
separately identifiable components of the financial instrument that are reliably measurable. Risk-free or benchmark interest rates generally are 
regarded as being both separately identifiable and reliably measurable, except for the Interest Rate Benchmark Reform Phase 2 transition 
where HSBC designates alternative benchmark rates as the hedged risk which may not have been separately identifiable upon initial 
designation, provided HSBC reasonably expects it will meet the requirement within 24 months from the first designation date. The designated 
risk components account for a significant portion of the overall changes in fair value or cash flows of the hedged items.
HSBC uses net investment hedges to hedge the structural foreign exchange risk related to net investments in foreign operations including 
subsidiaries and branches whose functional currencies are different from that of the parent. When hedging with foreign exchange forward 
contracts, the spot rate component of the foreign exchange risk is designated for an amount of net assets as the hedged risk. 
Sources of hedge ineffectiveness may arise from basis risk, including but not limited to the discount rates used for calculating the fair value of 
derivatives, hedges using instruments with a non-zero fair value, and notional and timing differences between the hedged items and hedging 
instruments. 
Fair value hedges
HSBC enters into fixed-for-floating interest rate swaps to manage the exposure to changes in fair value caused by movements in market 
interest rates on certain fixed-rate financial instruments that are not measured at fair value through profit or loss, including debt securities held 
and issued.
HSBC hedging instrument by hedged risk
Hedging instrument
Carrying amount
Notional amount1,2
Assets
Liabilities
Balance sheet 
presentation
Change in fair value3
Hedged risk
$m
$m
$m
$m
Interest rate4
 
190,332 
4,180 
4,411 
Derivatives 
(449) 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
190,332 
4,180 
4,411 
 
(449) 
 
Interest rate4
 
172,985 
3,729 
2,965 
Derivatives 
(1,043) 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
172,985 
3,729 
2,965 
 
(1,043) 
1
The notional contract amounts of derivatives designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships indicate the nominal value of transactions outstanding at 
the balance sheet date. They do not represent amounts at risk.
2
The notional amount of non-dynamic fair value hedges is equal to $71,916m (2023: $62,480m), of which the weighted-average maturity date is March 2031 and 
the weighted-average swap rate is 3.24% (2023: 3.04%).
3
Used in effectiveness testing, which uses the full fair value change of the hedging instrument not excluding any component.
4
The hedged risk ‘interest rate’ includes inflation risk.
HSBC hedged item by hedged risk
Hedged item
Ineffectiveness
Carrying amount
Accumulated fair value 
hedge adjustments 
included in carrying 
amount1
Change in 
fair value2
Recognised 
in profit 
and loss
Assets
Liabilities
Assets
Liabilities
Balance sheet 
presentation
Profit and loss 
presentation
Hedged risk
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Interest rate3
 
93,055 
 
(2,701) 
Financial investments measured at fair value 
through other 
comprehensive income 
(728) 
 
(8) 
Net income from 
financial instruments 
held for trading or 
managed on a fair 
value basis
 
492 
 
11 
Financial investments measured at amortised 
cost 
(14) 
 
13,915 
 
(104) 
— 
Loans and advances to 
customers 
16 
 
— 
 
— 
Reverse repurchase 
agreements – nontrading 
— 
 
72,576 
 
(1,800) 
Debt securities in issue 
1,110 
 
207 
 
— 
Customer accounts 
— 
 
1,205 
 
(266) 
Subordinated liabilities 
57 
At 31 Dec 2024
 107,462 
73,988 
(2,794) 
(2,066) 
 
441 
(8) 
 
Notes on the financial statements
396
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

HSBC hedged item by hedged risk (continued)
Hedged item
Ineffectiveness
Carrying amount
Accumulated fair value 
hedge adjustments 
included in carrying 
amount1
Change in fair 
value2
Recognised 
in profit
 and loss
Assets
Liabilities
Assets
Liabilities
Balance sheet presentation
Profit and loss 
presentation
Hedged risk
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Interest rate3
 
82,321 
 
(2,282) 
Financial investments measured at fair value through 
other comprehensive income 
2,053 
 
5 
Net income from 
financial instruments 
held for trading or 
managed on a fair 
value basis
 
514 
 
32 
Financial investments measured at amortised cost 
32 
 
4,701 
 
(18) 
Loans and advances to 
customers 
122 
 
— 
 
— 
Reverse repurchase 
agreements – non-trading 
15 
 
64,269 
 
(2,147) 
Debt securities in issue 
(1,179) 
 
— 
 
— 
Deposits by banks 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
Subordinated liabilities 
5 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
87,536 
64,269 
(2,268) 
(2,147) 
 
1,048 
5 
1
The accumulated amount of fair value hedge adjustments remaining in the statement of financial position for hedged items that have ceased to be adjusted for 
hedging gains and losses were liabilities of $311m (2023: $136m) for FVOCI assets and liabilities of $745m (2023: $1,256m) for debt issued.
2
Used in effectiveness testing, which comprise an amount attributable to the designated hedged risk that can be a risk component.
3
The hedged risk ‘interest rate’ includes inflation risk.
HSBC Holdings hedging instrument by hedged risk
Hedging instrument
Carrying amount
Notional amount1,2
Assets
Liabilities
Balance sheet 
presentation
Change in fair value3
Hedged risk
$m
$m
$m
$m
Interest rate4
 
90,074 
714 
3,838 
Derivatives 
(1,103) 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
90,074 
714 
3,838 
 
(1,103) 
Interest rate4
 
92,268 
1,128 
3,638 
Derivatives 
1,426 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
92,268 
1,128 
3,638 
 
1,426 
1
The notional contract amounts of derivatives designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships indicate the nominal value of transactions outstanding at 
the balance sheet date. They do not represent amounts at risk.
2
The notional amount of non-dynamic fair value hedges is equal to $90,074m (2023: $92,268m), of which the weighted-average maturity date is May 2030 and 
the weighted-average swap rate is 2.78% (2023: 2.46%). The majority of these hedges are internal to the Group. 
3
Used in effectiveness testing, comprising the full fair value change of the hedging instrument not excluding any component.
4
The hedged risk ‘interest rate’ includes foreign exchange risk.
HSBC Holdings hedged item by hedged risk
Hedged item
Ineffectiveness
Carrying amount
Accumulated fair value 
hedge adjustments 
included in carrying 
amount1
Change in 
fair value2
Recognised 
in profit 
and loss
Assets
Liabilities
Assets
Liabilities
Balance sheet 
presentation
Profit and loss
presentation
Hedged risk
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Interest rate3
 
78,402 
 
(2,423) 
Debt securities
in issue 
861 
(9) 
Net income from 
financial instruments 
held for trading or 
managed on a fair value 
basis
 
7,769 
 
(244) 
Loans and 
advances to banks 
233 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
7,769 
78,402 
(244) 
(2,423) 
 
1,094 
(9) 
Interest rate3
 
80,889 
 
(2,971) 
Debt securities
in issue 
(1,716) 
29 
Net income from financial 
instruments held for 
trading or managed on a 
fair value basis
 
7,772 
 
(490) 
Loans and 
advances to banks 
319 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
7,772 
80,889 
(490) 
(2,971) 
 
(1,397) 
29 
1
The accumulated amount of fair value hedge adjustments remaining in the statement of financial position for hedged items that have ceased to be adjusted for 
hedging gains and losses were liabilities of $1,216m (2023: $1,299m) for debt issued.
2
Used in effectiveness testing, comprising amount attributable to the designated hedged risk that can be a risk component.
3
The hedged risk ‘interest rate’ includes foreign exchange risk.
For some debt securities held, HSBC manages interest rate risk in a dynamic risk management strategy. The assets in scope of this strategy 
are high-quality fixed-rate debt securities, which may be sold to meet liquidity and funding requirements.
The interest rate risk of the HSBC fixed-rate debt securities issued is managed in a non-dynamic risk management strategy.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
397
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Cash flow hedges
HSBC’s cash flow hedging instruments consist principally of interest rate swaps and cross-currency swaps that are used to manage the 
variability in future interest cash flows of non-trading financial assets and liabilities, arising due to changes in market interest rates and foreigncurrency basis. 
HSBC applies macro cash flow hedging for interest rate risk exposures on portfolios of replenishing current and forecasted issuances of nontrading assets and liabilities that bear interest at variable rates, including rolling such instruments. The amounts and timing of future cash flows, 
representing both principal and interest flows, are projected for each portfolio of financial assets and liabilities on the basis of their contractual 
terms and other relevant factors, including estimates of prepayments and defaults. The aggregate cash flows representing both principal 
balances and interest cash flows across all portfolios are used to determine the effectiveness and ineffectiveness. Macro cash flow hedges are 
considered to be dynamic hedges.
HSBC also hedges the variability in future cash flows on foreign-denominated financial assets and liabilities arising due to changes in foreign 
exchange market rates with cross-currency swaps, which are considered dynamic hedges.
Hedging instrument by hedged risk
Hedging instrument
Hedged item
Ineffectiveness
Carrying amount
Change in 
fair value2
Change in fair 
value3
Recognised 
in profit
 and loss 
Profit and loss 
presentation
Notional 
amount1
Assets
Liabilities
Balance 
sheet 
presentation
Hedged risk
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Foreign currency
 
47,194 
2,088 
68 
Derivatives 
2,451 
2,451 
— 
Net income from
financial instruments
held for trading or
managed on a fair
value basis
Interest rate
 
215,777 
619 
519 
Derivatives 
(2,954) 
(2,964) 
10 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
262,971 
2,707 
587 
 
(503) 
(513) 
10 
 
Foreign currency
 
29,772 
935 
257 
Derivatives 
977 
977 
— 
Net income from 
financial instruments 
held for trading or 
managed on a fair 
value basis
Interest rate
 
188,327 
1,390 
1,116 
Derivatives 
1,542 
1,512 
30 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
218,099 
2,325 
1,373 
 
2,519 
2,489 
30 
1
The notional contract amounts of derivatives designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships indicate the nominal value of transactions outstanding at 
the balance sheet date. They do not represent amounts at risk.
2
Used in effectiveness testing, comprising the full fair value change of the hedging instrument not excluding any component.
3
Used in effectiveness assessment, comprising amount attributable to the designated hedged risk that can be a risk component.
Reconciliation of equity and analysis of other comprehensive income by risk type
Interest rate
Foreign currency
$m
$m
Cash flow hedging reserve at 1 Jan 2024
 
(901) 
(132) 
Fair value gains/(losses)
 
(2,964) 
2,451 
Fair value (gains)/losses reclassified from the cash flow hedge reserve to the income statement in respect of:
Hedged items that have affected profit or loss1
 
2,529 
(2,430) 
Income taxes
 
81 
1 
Others
 
199 
87 
Cash flow hedging reserve at 31 Dec 2024
 
(1,056) 
(23) 
Cash flow hedging reserve at 1 Jan 2023
 
(3,387) 
(421) 
Fair value gains/(losses)
 
1,512 
977 
Fair value (gains)/losses reclassified from the cash flow hedge reserve to the income statement in respect of:
Hedged items that have affected profit or loss1
 
2,196 
(718) 
Income taxes
 
(937) 
(29) 
Others
 
(285) 
59 
Cash flow hedging reserve at 31 Dec 2023
 
(901) 
(132) 
1 Hedged items that have affected profit or loss are primarily recorded within interest income.
Notes on the financial statements
398
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Net investment hedges
The Group applies hedge accounting in respect of certain net investments in non-US dollar functional currency foreign operations for changes in 
spot exchange rates only. Hedging could be undertaken for Group structural exposure to changes in the US dollar to foreign currency exchange 
rates using forward foreign exchange contracts or by financing with foreign currency borrowings. An economic relationship exists between the 
hedged net investment and hedging instrument due to the shared foreign currency risk exposure. For further details of our structural foreign 
exchange exposures, see page 212.
The aggregate positions at the reporting date and the performance indicators of both live and de-designated hedges are summarised below. 
Hedges of net investment in foreign operations
Carrying amount
Nominal
 amount
Amounts 
recognised 
in OCI1
Change in 
fair value2
Hedge ineffectiveness 
recognised in income 
statement
Derivative
 assets
Derivative 
liabilities
Description of hedged risk
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
2024
Pound sterling-denominated structural foreign exchange
 
397 
(1) 
15,407 
833 
229 
— 
Swiss franc-denominated structural foreign exchange
 
10 
— 
556 
89 
40 
— 
Hong Kong dollar-denominated structural foreign exchange
 
1 
(3) 
5,844 
(27) 
(26) 
— 
Other structural foreign exchange3
 
242 
(3) 
13,160 
907 
499 
— 
Total
 
650 
(7) 
34,967 
1,803 
742 
— 
2023
Pound sterling-denominated structural foreign exchange
 
(404) 
16,415 
604 
(843) 
— 
Swiss franc-denominated structural foreign exchange
 
(23) 
526 
49 
(62) 
— 
Hong Kong dollar-denominated structural foreign exchange
 
— 
5,792 
— 
2 
— 
Other structural foreign exchange3
 
(96) 
11,042 
477 
102 
— 
Total
 
— 
(523) 
33,775 
1,130 
(801) 
— 
1 Amount recognised in OCI for Swiss franc includes $110m (2023: $110m) related to de-designated hedge.
2 Used in effectiveness assessment, comprising amount attributable to the designated hedged risk that can be a risk component.
3 Other currencies include Euro, New Taiwan dollar, Singapore dollar, Canadian dollar, Omani rial, South Korean won, UAE dirham, Indian rupee, Chinese 
renminbi, Kuwaiti dinar, Qatari riyal, Saudi riyal, Indonesian rupiah, Thai baht and Philippine peso.
16 Financial investments
Carrying amount of financial investments
2024
2023
$m
$m
Financial investments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income
 
339,193 
294,437 
– treasury and other eligible bills
 
112,705 
102,438 
– debt securities
 
224,496 
190,119 
– equity securities
 
1,569 
1,447 
– other instruments
 
423 
433 
Debt instruments measured at amortised cost
 
153,973 
148,326 
– treasury and other eligible bills
 
22,148 
30,733 
– debt securities
 
131,825 
117,593 
At 31 Dec
 
493,166 
442,763 
 
Equity instruments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income
Fair value
Dividends 
recognised
Type of equity instruments
$m
$m
Investments required by central institutions
 
620 
29 
Business facilitation
 
886 
29 
Others
 
63 
2 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
1,569 
60 
Investments required by central institutions
 
609 
27 
Business facilitation
 
793 
35 
Others
 
45 
2 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
1,447 
64 
 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
399
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Weighted average yields of investment debt securities
Up to 1
 year
1 to 5 
years
5 to 10 
years
Over 10 
years
Yield
Yield
Yield
Yield
%
%
%
%
Debt securities measured at fair value through other comprehensive income
US Treasury 
 
2.9 
 
3.4 
 
2.5 
 
2.3 
US Government agencies 
 
0.8 
 
— 
 
3.1 
 
3.1 
US Government-sponsored agencies 
 
1.7 
 
3.5 
 
1.6 
 
1.8 
UK Government 
 
3.8 
 
3.8 
 
2.3 
 
2.4 
Hong Kong Government 
 
— 
 
1.9 
 
2.0 
 
— 
Other governments 
 
2.7 
 
4.1 
 
3.7 
 
2.3 
Asset-backed securities 
 
3.4 
 
3.0 
 
5.4 
 
4.3 
Corporate debt and other securities 
 
2.7 
 
3.5 
 
3.2 
 
1.9 
Debt securities measured at amortised cost
US Treasury 
 
3.5 
 
3.8 
 
3.8 
 
2.1 
US Government agencies 
 
0.7 
 
0.7 
 
1.1 
 
4.6 
US Government-sponsored agencies 
 
— 
 
2.8 
 
3.7 
 
2.9 
UK Government 
 
3.5 
 
2.9 
 
2.8 
 
— 
Hong Kong Government 
 
— 
 
2.7 
 
— 
 
— 
Other governments 
 
2.8 
 
4.1 
 
5.2 
 
— 
Asset-backed securities 
 
— 
 
— 
 
7.7 
 
— 
Corporate debt and other securities 
 
2.7 
 
2.9 
 
3.2 
 
4.8 
 
The maturity distributions of ABSs are presented in the above table on the basis of contractual maturity dates. The weighted average yield for 
each range of maturities is calculated by dividing the annualised interest income for the year ended 31 December 2024 by the book amount of 
debt securities at that date. The yields do not include the effect of related derivatives.
HSBC Holdings
HSBC Holdings carrying amount of financial investments
2024
2023
$m
$m
Debt instruments measured at amortised cost
– treasury and other eligible bills
 
9,556 
15,629 
– debt securities
 
772 
3,929 
At 31 Dec
 
10,328 
19,558 
 
Weighted average yields of investment debt securities
Up to 1
 year
1 to 5 
years
5 to 10 
years
Over 10 
years
Yield
Yield
Yield
Yield
%
%
%
%
Debt securities measured at amortised cost
US Treasury 
 
4.3 
 
— 
 
— 
 
— 
 
The weighted average yield for each range of maturities is calculated by dividing the annualised interest income for the year ended 
31 December 2024 by the book amount of debt securities at that date. The yields do not include the effect of related derivatives.
17 Assets pledged, collateral received and assets transferred
Assets pledged1
Financial assets pledged as collateral
2024
2023
$m
$m
Treasury bills and other eligible securities 
 
17,713 
20,504 
Loans and advances to banks 
 
14,880 
13,636 
Loans and advances to customers 
 
24,524 
27,490 
Debt securities 
 
91,975 
88,367 
Equity securities
 
51,642 
40,280 
Other 
 
63,386 
61,223 
Assets pledged at 31 Dec
 
264,120 
251,500 
Notes on the financial statements
400
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The value of assets pledged to secure liabilities may be greater than the book value of assets utilised as collateral. For example, in the case of 
securitisations and covered bonds, the amount of liabilities issued plus mandatory over-collateralisation is less than the book value of the pool 
of assets available for use as collateral. This is also the case where assets are placed with a custodian or a settlement agent that has a floating 
charge over all the assets placed to secure any liabilities under settlement accounts.
These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary for collateralised transactions including, where relevant, standard 
securities lending and borrowing, repurchase agreements and derivative margining. HSBC places both cash and non-cash collateral in relation to 
derivative transactions.
Hong Kong currency notes in circulation are secured by the deposit of funds in respect of which the Hong Kong Government certificates of 
indebtedness are held.
Financial assets pledged as collateral which the counterparty has the right to sell or repledge
2024
2023
$m
$m
Trading assets 
 
84,863 
77,847 
Financial investments
 
47,248 
39,324 
At 31 Dec
 
132,111 
117,171 
 
Collateral received1
The fair value of assets accepted as collateral relating primarily to standard securities lending, reverse repurchase agreements, swaps of 
securities and derivative margining that HSBC is permitted to sell or repledge in the absence of default was $515,267m (2023: $495,653m). 
The fair value of any such collateral sold or repledged was $293,460m (2023: $284,108m).
HSBC is obliged to return equivalent securities. These transactions are conducted under terms that are usual and customary to standard 
securities lending, reverse repurchase agreements and derivative margining.
Assets transferred1
The assets pledged include transfers to third parties that do not qualify for derecognition, including secured borrowings such as debt securities 
held by counterparties as collateral under repurchase agreements and equity securities lent under securities lending agreements, as well as 
swaps of equity and debt securities. For secured borrowings, the transferred asset collateral continues to be recognised in full while a related 
liability, reflecting the Group’s obligation to repurchase the assets for a fixed price at a future date, is also recognised on the balance sheet. 
Where securities are swapped, the transferred asset continues to be recognised in full. There is no associated liability as the non-cash collateral 
received is not recognised on the balance sheet. The Group is unable to use, sell or pledge the transferred assets for the duration of the 
transaction, and remains exposed to interest rate risk and credit risk on these pledged assets. 
Transferred financial assets not qualifying for full derecognition and associated financial liabilities
Carrying amount of:
Transferred
assets
Associated
liabilities
$m
$m
At 31 Dec 2024
Repurchase agreements
 
83,585 
75,625 
Securities lending agreements
 
58,232 
4,361 
At 31 Dec 2023
Repurchase agreements
 
81,486 
74,517 
Securities lending agreements
 
46,663 
3,826 
1 Excludes assets classified as held for sale.
18 Interests in associates and joint ventures
Carrying amount of HSBC’s interests in associates and joint ventures
2024
2023
$m
$m
Interests in associates
 
28,777 
27,200 
Interests in joint ventures
 
132 
144 
Interests in associates and joint ventures
 
28,909 
27,344 
 
Principal associates of HSBC
2024
2023
Carrying amount
Fair value1
Carrying amount
Fair value1
$m
$m
$m
$m
Bank of Communications Co., Limited
 
22,367 
11,631 
21,210 
8,812 
Saudi Awwal Bank
 
5,027 
5,705 
4,659 
6,438 
1
Principal associates are listed on recognised stock exchanges. The fair values are based on the quoted market prices of the shares held (Level 1 in the fair value 
hierarchy).
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
401
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Principal associates of HSBC (continued)
At 31 Dec 2024
Jurisdiction of incorporation
and principal place of
business
Principal activity
HSBC’s interest1
%
Bank of Communications Co., Limited 
Mainland China
Banking services
 
19.03 
Saudi Awwal Bank
Saudi Arabia
Banking services
 
31.00 
1 There has been no percentage change in HSBC’s shareholding interest in the principal associates when compared with 2023.
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures
2024
2023
$m
$m
Bank of Communications Co., Limited
 
2,241 
2,250 
Saudi Awwal Bank
 
596 
538 
Other associates and joint ventures
 
75 
19 
Share of profit in associates and joint ventures
 
2,912 
2,807 
Less: Impairment of interest in BoCom
 
— 
(3,000) 
A list of all associates and joint ventures is set out in Note 38. 
Bank of Communications Co., Limited
The Group maintains a 19.03% interest in Bank of Communications Co., Limited (‘BoCom’). The Group’s investment in BoCom is classified as 
an associate. Significant influence in BoCom was established with consideration of all relevant factors, including representation on BoCom’s 
Board of Directors and participation in a resource and experience sharing agreement (‘RES’). Under the RES, HSBC staff have been seconded 
to assist in the maintenance of BoCom’s financial and operating policies. Investments in associates are recognised using the equity method of 
accounting in accordance with IAS 28 ‘Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures’, whereby the investment is initially recognised at cost 
and adjusted thereafter for the post-acquisition change in the Group’s share of associate’s net assets. An impairment test is required if there is 
any indication of impairment or reversal.
At 31 December 2023, the Group performed an impairment test on the carrying amount, which resulted in an impairment of $3.0bn, as the 
recoverable amount as determined by a value in use (‘VIU’) calculation was lower than the carrying amount. No further impairment was 
required for the year ended 31 December 2024.
If the Group did not have significant influence in BoCom, the investment would be carried at fair value rather than the current carrying amount.
On 24 September 2024, the People’s Bank of China, National Financial Regulatory Administration and China Securities Regulatory Commission 
announced several policies aimed at promoting growth and economic development. These included monetary stimulus, property market 
support and capital market strengthening measures, as well as measures to recapitalise the largest commercial banks. In the absence of 
further details on how the recapitalisation of the largest commercial banks may be enacted, there is no change to the impairment test result at 
31 December 2024. As further details become available, the impairment test will be updated to reflect their impact and may result in a change 
to the carrying value of our investment in BoCom. These developments have the potential to impact on the Group‘s reported earnings, but are 
unlikely to have an impact on HSBC's capital or capital ratios.
We remain supportive of our relationship with BoCom and will consider any broader implications on the carrying value of our investment as 
further details become available.
Impairment testing
At 31 December 2024, the carrying amount of the investment was $22.4bn (2023: $21.2bn) with fair value of $11.6bn (2023: $8.8bn). The 
Group has concluded there is no indication of further impairment (or indication that an impairment may no longer exist or may have decreased) 
since 31 December 2023. As part of this assessment, the Group updated the VIU calculation which supported that there was no significant 
change to the 31 December 2023 impairment position. As a result, no additional impairment to the carrying amount (or reversal of impairment) 
was made at 31 December 2024.
 
Basis of recoverable amount
The VIU calculation uses discounted cash flow projections based on management’s best estimates of future earnings available to ordinary 
shareholders prepared in accordance with IAS 36 ’Impairment of Assets’. Those cash flows used estimates based on BoCom’s current 
condition and so do not include estimated cash flows arising from uncommitted future actions that may affect the performance of the 
investment which will be considered at the relevant time should they arise. Significant management judgement is required in arriving at the 
best estimate.
The VIU may increase or decrease depending on the effect of changes to model inputs. The main model inputs are described below and are 
based on factors observed at period-end. The factors that could result in increases or reductions in the VIU include changes in BoCom’s shortterm performance, a change in regulatory capital requirements or revisions to the forecast of BoCom’s future profitability.
There are two main components to the VIU calculation. The first component is management’s best estimate of BoCom’s earnings. Forecast 
earnings growth over the short to medium term continues to be lower than recent (within the last five years) actual growth, and reflects the 
impact of recent macroeconomic, policy and industry factors in mainland China. As a result of management‘s intent to continue to retain its 
investment for the long term, earnings beyond the short to medium term are extrapolated into perpetuity using a long-term growth rate to 
derive a terminal value, which comprises the majority of the VIU. The second component is the capital maintenance charge (‘CMC’), which is 
management’s forecast of the earnings that need to be withheld in order for BoCom to meet capital requirements over the forecast period, 
meaning that CMC is deducted when arriving at management’s estimate of future earnings available to ordinary shareholders. The CMC 
reflects the revised capital requirements arising from revisions of the ratio of risk-weighted assets to total assets assumption. The principal 
inputs to the CMC calculation include estimates of asset growth, the ratio of risk-weighted assets to total assets and the expected capital 
requirements. An increase in the CMC as a result of a change to these principal inputs would reduce VIU. Additionally, management considers 
other qualitative factors, to ensure that the inputs to the VIU calculation remain appropriate.
Notes on the financial statements
402
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Key assumptions in value in use calculation
We used a number of assumptions in our VIU calculation, in accordance with the requirements of IAS 36:
–
Long-term profit growth rate: 3.00% (2023: 3.00%) for periods after 2028, which does not exceed forecast GDP growth in mainland China 
and is similar to forecasts by external analysts.
–
Long-term asset growth rate: 3.25% (2023: 3.00%) for periods after 2028, which is the rate that assets are expected to grow to achieve long-term 
profit growth of 3.00%. The increase of long-term asset growth rate was supported by historical data, which is expected to continue.
–
Discount rate: 8.53% (2023: 9.00%), which is based on a capital asset pricing model (‘CAPM’), using market data. The discount rate used is 
within the range of 7.1% to 8.8% (2023: 7.9% to 9.7%) indicated by the CAPM, and decreased as a consequence of a market-driven 
reduction in the risk-free rate.
–
Expected credit losses (‘ECL’) as a percentage of loans and advances to customers: ranges from 0.74% to 0.93% (2023: 0.80% to 0.97%) 
in the short to medium term, reflecting reported credit experience in mainland China. For periods after 2028, the ratio is 0.97% (2023: 
0.97%), which is higher than BoCom’s average ECL as a percentage of loans and advances to customers in recent years prior to the 
Covid-19 pandemic.
–
Risk-weighted assets as a percentage of total assets: ranges from 62.0% to 62.5% (2023: 62.0% to 63.7%) in the short to medium term, 
reflecting higher risk-weights in the short term followed by an expected reversion to recent historical levels. For periods after 2028, the ratio 
is 62.0% (2023: 62.0%), which continues to be similar to BoCom’s actual results in recent years.
–
Loans and advances to customers growth rate: ranges from 7.5% to 9.5% (2023: 9.0% to 10.0%) in the short to medium term, which is 
similar to BoCom’s actual results in recent years. Changes in the forecast growth rate of loans and advances to customers are likewise 
reflected in the forecast ECL.
–
Operating income growth rate: ranges from 0.1% to 9.9% (2023: -0.4% to 9.7%) in the short to medium term, which is similar to BoCom’s 
actual results in recent years, and is impacted by projections of net interest income in the short term as a consequence of recent 
macroeconomic, policy and industry factors in mainland China.
–
Cost-income ratio: ranges from 34.6% to 39.8% (2023: 35.5% to 39.8%) in the short to medium term. These ratios are similar to BoCom’s 
actual results in recent years.
–
Long-term effective tax rate: 15.0% (2023: 15.0%) for periods after 2028, which is higher than the recent historical average, and aligned to 
the minimum tax rate as proposed by the OECD/Group of 20 (‘G20’) Inclusive Framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting.
–
Capital requirements: capital adequacy ratio of 12.5% (2023: 12.5%) and tier 1 capital adequacy ratio of 9.5% (2023: 9.5%), based on 
BoCom’s capital risk appetite and capital requirements respectively.
The changes in VIU would impact the carrying amount if there is an indication of further impairment (or indication that an impairment may no 
longer exist or may have decreased, to the extent of impairment loss previously recognised). The following table illustrates the impact on the 
carrying amount of reasonably possible changes to key assumptions used in the VIU calculation. This reflects the sensitivity of each key 
assumption on its own and it is possible that more than one favourable and/or unfavourable change may occur at the same time. The selected 
rates of reasonably possible changes to key assumptions are based on external analysts’ forecasts, statutory requirements and other relevant 
external data sources, which can change period to period. Unless specified, favourable and unfavourable changes are consistently applied 
throughout short-to-medium and long-term forecast years, based on a straight-line average of the base case assumption.
Sensitivity of the carrying amount to the key VIU assumptions
Favourable change
Unfavourable change
Reversal of impairment / 
VIU headroom
Impairment
bps
$bn
bps
$bn
At 31 Dec 2024
Long-term profit growth rate
 
55 
4.0 
(96) 
(5.4) 
Long-term asset growth rate
 
(121) 
8.6 
30 
(2.8) 
Discount rate
 
(143) 
5.4 
287 
(6.4) 
Expected credit losses as a percentage of loans and advances to 
customers
2024 to 2028: 66 
2029 onwards: 91 
4.0 
2024 to 2028: 108 
2029 onwards: 104 
(4.3) 
Risk-weighted assets as a percentage of total assets 
 
(132) 
0.8 
234 
(1.7) 
Loans and advances to customers growth rate
 
(217) 
3.4 
340 
(6.1) 
Operating income growth rate
76 
2.7 
(81) 
(3.3) 
Cost-income ratio 
 
(190) 
0.2 
380 
(7.1) 
Long-term effective tax rate
 
(426) 
1.6 
1,000 
(4.0) 
Capital requirements – capital adequacy ratio
 
— 
— 
372 
(14.3) 
Capital requirements – tier 1 capital adequacy ratio
 
— 
— 
270 
(6.7) 
At 31 Dec 2023
Long-term profit growth rate
 
58 
3.3 
(79) 
(3.4) 
Long-term asset growth rate
 
(79) 
4.5 
58 
(4.0) 
Discount rate
 
(110) 
4.5 
280 
(6.1) 
Expected credit losses as a percentage of loans and advances to 
customers
2023 to 2027: 78 
2028 onwards: 91 
2.9 
2023 to 2027: 120 
2028 onwards: 104 
(4.4) 
Risk-weighted assets as a percentage of total assets
 
(150) 
0.9 
216 
(1.6) 
Loans and advances to customers growth rate
 
(213) 
3.2 
207 
(2.9) 
Operating income growth rate
 
57 
2.6 
(81) 
(2.6) 
Cost-income ratio
 
(212) 
0.8 
99 
(2.9) 
Long-term effective tax rate
 
(426) 
1.6 
1,000 
(3.5) 
Capital requirements – capital adequacy ratio
 
— 
— 
215 
(7.5) 
Capital requirements – tier 1 capital adequacy ratio
 
— 
— 
248 
(3.7) 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
403
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Considering the interrelationship of the changes set out in the table above, management estimates that the reasonably possible range of VIU is 
$13.5bn to $30.8bn (2023: $13.1bn to $28.8bn), acknowledging that the fair value of the Group’s investment has ranged from $6.8bn to 
$11.6bn over the last five years as at the date of the impairment tests. The possible range of VIU is based on impacts set out in the table above 
arising from the favourable/unfavourable change in the earnings in the short to medium term, the expected credit losses as a percentage of 
loans and advances to customers, and a 50bps increase/decrease in the discount rate. All other long-term assumptions, and the basis of the 
CMC have been kept unchanged when determining the reasonably possible range of the VIU.
Selected financial information of BoCom
The statutory accounting reference date of BoCom is 31 December. For the year ended 31 December 2024, HSBC included the associate’s 
results on the basis of the financial statements for the 12 months ended 30 September 2024, taking into account any known changes in the 
subsequent period from 1 October 2024 to 31 December 2024 that would have materially affected the results.
Selected balance sheet information of BoCom
At 30 Sep
At 30 Sep
2024
2023
$m
$m
Cash and balances at central banks 
 
99,663 
112,800 
Due from and placements with banks and other financial institutions 
 
122,607 
100,464 
Loans and advances to customers 
 
1,128,603 
1,087,613 
Other financial assets 
 
587,721 
587,949 
Other assets 
 
61,086 
59,215 
Total assets 
 
1,999,680 
1,948,041 
Due to and placements from banks and other financial institutions 
 
326,742 
292,065 
Deposits from customers
 
1,195,590 
1,216,611 
Other financial liabilities 
 
282,894 
251,246 
Other liabilities 
 
38,082 
36,766 
Total liabilities 
 
1,843,308 
1,796,698 
Total equity 
 
156,372 
151,343 
Reconciliation of BoCom’s total shareholders’ equity to the carrying amount in HSBC’s consolidated financial statements
At 30 Sep
2024
2023
$m
$m
Equity attributable to shareholders
 
154,748 
149,713 
Other equity instruments
 
(23,946) 
(24,616) 
Equity attributable to shareholders less other equity instruments
 
130,802 
125,097 
The Group's share of equity1
 
25,284 
24,210 
Impairment2
 
(2,917) 
(3,000) 
Carrying amount 
 
22,367 
21,210 
1 This balance includes goodwill originally arising on acquisition.
2 This balance includes the impact of foreign exchange movements on the $3bn impairment booked in the financial year ended 31 December 2023.
Selected income statement information of BoCom
For the 12 months ended 30 Sep
2024
2023
$m
$m
Net interest income 
 
23,180 
23,432 
Net fee and commission income 
 
5,315 
6,221 
Credit and impairment losses
 
(7,410) 
(8,099) 
Depreciation and amortisation 
 
(2,589) 
(2,560) 
Tax expense 
 
(835) 
(1,007) 
Profit for the year 
 
12,922 
13,211 
Other comprehensive income 
 
1,361 
686 
Total comprehensive income 
 
14,283 
13,897 
Dividends received from BoCom 
 
745 
736 
 
Saudi Awwal Bank
The Group’s investment in Saudi Awwal Bank (‘SAB’) is classified as an associate. HSBC is the largest shareholder in SAB with a shareholding 
of 31%. Significant influence in SAB is established via representation on the Board of Directors. Investments in associates are recognised using 
the equity method of accounting in accordance with IAS 28, as described previously for BoCom.
Impairment testing
There were no indicators of impairment at 31 December 2024. The fair value of the Group’s investment in SAB of $5.7bn was above the 
carrying amount of $5.0bn.
Notes on the financial statements
404
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

19 Investments in subsidiaries 
Main subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings1
At 31 Dec 2024
Place of 
incorporation or 
registration
HSBC’s 
interest 
%
Share class
Europe
HSBC Bank plc 
England and Wales
 
100 
£1 Ordinary, $0.01 Non-Cumulative Third Dollar 
Preference
HSBC UK Bank plc
England and Wales
 
100 
£1 Ordinary
HSBC Continental Europe
France
 
99.99 
€5 Actions
Asia
Hang Seng Bank Limited2,3
Hong Kong
 
63.12 
HK$5 Ordinary
HSBC Bank (China) Company Limited 
People’s Republic of 
China
 
100 
CNY1 Ordinary
HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad 
Malaysia
 
100 
Ordinary no par value
HSBC Life (International) Limited 
Bermuda
 
100 
HK$1 Ordinary
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited 
Hong Kong
 
100 
Ordinary no par value
Middle East, North Africa and Türkiye
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited 
United Arab Emirates
 
100 
$1 Ordinary and $1 Preference shares 
North America
HSBC Bank USA, N.A. 
US
 
100 
$100 Common and $0.01 Preference
Latin America
HSBC Mexico, S.A., Institución de Banca Múltiple,
Grupo Financiero HSBC 
Mexico
 
99.99 
MXN2 Ordinary
1 Main subsidiaries are either held directly or indirectly via intermediate holding companies. During 2024, we completed the sale of HSBC Bank Canada to the 
Royal Bank of Canada, therefore it is no longer an indirect subsidiary of HSBC Holdings. There has been no material percentage change in HSBC’s shareholding 
for its existing main subsidiaries since 2023. 
2 In addition to the strategic holding disclosed above, the Group held 0.06% (2023: 0.09%) shareholding as part of its trading books.
3 Based on the latest corporate substantial shareholding notice filed with Hong Kong Exchange and Clearing Limited on 21 June 2024, the Group’s shareholding in 
Hang Seng Bank Limited on 18 June 2024 was 63.04%. Movements in our shareholding since 18 June 2024 are reflected in the above table. 
Details of the debt, subordinated debt and preference shares issued by the main subsidiaries to parties external to the Group are included in 
Note 26 ‘Debt securities in issue’ and Note 29 ‘Subordinated liabilities’, respectively.
A list of all related undertakings is set out in Note 38. The principal countries and territories of operation are the same as the countries and 
territories of incorporation except for HSBC Life (International) Limited, which operates mainly in Hong Kong.
HSBC is structured as a network of regional banks and locally incorporated regulated banking entities. Each bank is separately capitalised in 
accordance with applicable prudential requirements and maintains a capital buffer consistent with the Group’s risk appetite for the relevant 
country or region. HSBC’s capital management process is incorporated in the financial resource plan, which is approved by the Board.
HSBC Holdings is the primary provider of equity capital to its subsidiaries and also provides them with non-equity capital where necessary. 
These investments are substantially funded by HSBC Holdings’ issuance of equity and non-equity capital, and by profit retention. 
As part of its capital management process, HSBC Holdings seeks to maintain a balance between the composition of its capital and its 
investment in subsidiaries. Subject to this, there is no current or foreseen impediment to HSBC Holdings’ ability to provide funding for such 
investments. During 2024, consistent with the Group’s capital plan, the Group’s material subsidiaries did not experience any significant 
restrictions on paying dividends or repaying loans and advances. Also, there are no foreseen restrictions envisaged with regard to planned 
dividends or payments from material subsidiaries. However, the ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or advance monies to HSBC Holdings 
depends on, among other things, their respective local regulatory capital and banking requirements, exchange controls, statutory reserves, and 
financial and operating performance.
The amount of guarantees by HSBC Holdings in favour of other Group entities is set out in Note 33.
Information on structured entities consolidated by HSBC where HSBC owns less than 50% of the voting rights is included in Note 20 
‘Structured entities’. In each of these cases, HSBC controls and consolidates an entity when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns 
from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity.
Impairment testing of investments in subsidiaries 
At each reporting period end, HSBC Holdings reviews investments in subsidiaries for indicators of impairment. An impairment is recognised 
when the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount for that investment. The recoverable amount is the higher of the investment’s fair 
value less costs of disposal and its VIU, in accordance with the requirements of IAS 36. The VIU is calculated by discounting management’s 
cash flow projections for the investment. The cash flows represent the free cash flows based on the subsidiary’s binding capital requirements.
We used a number of assumptions in our VIU calculation, in accordance with the requirements of IAS 36:
–
Management’s judgement in estimating future cash flows: The cash flow projections for each investment are based on the latest approved 
plans, which include forecast capital available for distribution based on the capital requirements of the subsidiary, taking into account 
minimum and core capital requirements and factoring in reasonably possible uncertainties. For the impairment test as at 31 December 2024, 
cash flow projections until the end of 2029 were considered in line with our internal planning horizon. Our cash flow projections include 
known and observable climate-related opportunities and costs associated with our sustainable products and operating model. 
–
Long-term growth rates: The long-term growth rate is used to extrapolate the free cash flows in perpetuity because of the long-term 
perspective of the legal entity. The growth rate reflects long-term inflation for the country or territory within which the investment operates.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
405
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

–
Discount rates: The rate used to discount the cash flows is based on the cost of capital assigned to each investment, which is derived using 
a CAPM and market implied cost of equity. CAPM depends on a number of inputs reflecting financial and economic variables, including the 
risk-free rate and a premium to reflect the inherent risk of the business being evaluated. These variables are based on the market’s 
assessment of the economic variables and management’s judgement. The discount rates for each investment are refined to reflect the 
rates of inflation for the countries or territories within which the investment operates. In addition, for the purposes of testing investments 
for impairment, management supplements this process by comparing the discount rates derived using the internally generated CAPM, with 
cost of capital rates produced by external sources for businesses operating in similar markets. The impacts from climate risk are included to 
the extent that they are observable in discount rates and asset prices.
As at 31 December 2024, the carrying amount of HSBC Holdings’ investments in subsidiaries was $152.3bn (2023: $159.5bn). The year-on-year 
reduction was predominantly due to the recognition of an $11.4bn impairment of HSBC Holdings’ investment in HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) 
Limited.
The recoverable amount of HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited is assessed as the aggregate of the recoverable amounts of its subsidiaries. 
During the year HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited sold its stake in its direct subsidiary HSBC Bank Canada to Royal Bank of Canada, and 
transferred HSBC Private Bank (Suisse) SA, its indirect subsidiary (via HSBC Private Banking Holdings (Suisse) SA), to HSBC Bank plc. 
Following these disposals HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited paid $12.1bn in dividend income to HSBC Holdings, which mainly drove the 
recognition of an $11.4bn impairment in its investment in HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited, offset by a higher recoverable amount of 
HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited’s principal remaining subsidiary as at 31 December 2024, HSBC North America Holdings Inc, driven by 
higher projected profits and lower projected capital requirements. As at 31 December 2024, HSBC Holdings had recognised for HSBC 
Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited a cumulative impairment of $21.6bn (2023: $10.2bn), and a carrying amount of $14.0bn (2023: $25.8bn).
Impairment test results
Investments
Recoverable 
amount
Discount 
rate
Long-term
 growth rate
$m
%
%
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
At 31 Dec 2024
 
13,264 
 
11.00 
 
2.25 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
12,756 
 
10.50 
 
2.17 
Sensitivities of key assumptions in calculating VIU 
At 31 December 2024, the recoverable amount of HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited remained sensitive to reasonably possible changes in 
key assumptions impacting its principal subsidiary, HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
In making an estimate of reasonably possible changes to assumptions, management considers the available evidence in respect of each input 
to the model. These include the external range of observable discount rates, historical performance against forecast, and risks attached to the 
key assumptions underlying cash flow.
The following table presents a summary of the key assumptions underlying the most sensitive inputs to the model for HSBC North America 
Holdings Inc., the key risks attached to each, and details of a reasonably possible change to assumptions where, in the opinion of management, 
these could result in a change in VIU.
Reasonably possible changes in key assumptions
Input
Key assumptions
Associated risks
Reasonably possible 
change
Investment
HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 
(subsidiary of HSBC Overseas 
Holdings (UK) Limited)
Free cash flows projections
– Level of interest rates and 
yield curves.
– Competitors’ positions 
within the market.
– Strategic actions 
relating to revenue and 
costs are not achieved.
– Free cash flow 
projections decrease 
by 10%.
Discount rate
– Discount rate used is a 
reasonable estimate of a 
suitable market rate for 
the profile of the 
business. 
– External evidence arises 
to suggest that the rate 
used is not appropriate 
to the business.
– Discount rate 
decreases by 1%.
– Discount rate increases 
by 1%.
Sensitivity of VIU to reasonably possible changes in key assumptions
In $bn (unless otherwise stated)
At 31 Dec 2024
At 31 Dec 2023
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
VIU
 
13.3 
12.8 
Impact on VIU
100bps decrease in the discount rate – single variable1
 
1.5 
1.6 
100bps increase in the discount rate – single variable1
 
(1.2) 
(1.2) 
10% decrease in forecast profitability – single variable1
 
(1.3) 
(1.3) 
1 The recoverable amount of HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited represents the aggregate of recoverable amounts of the underlying subsidiaries. Single 
variable sensitivity analysis on a single subsidiary may therefore not be representative of the aggregate impact of the change in the variable.
Notes on the financial statements
406
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Subsidiaries with significant non-controlling interests
2024
2023
Hang Seng Bank Limited
Proportion of ownership interests and voting rights held by non-controlling interests (%)1
 
36.88 
37.86
Place of business
Hong Kong
Hong Kong
$m
$m
Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 
905 
889 
Accumulated non-controlling interests of the subsidiary 
6,879 
6,877 
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 
620 
490 
Summarised financial information: 
– total assets
229,069 
214,321 
– total liabilities 
208,908 
194,621 
– net operating income before changes in expected credit losses and other credit impairment charges
5,249 
5,210 
– profit for the year 
2,434 
2,356 
– total comprehensive income for the year 
2,482 
2,723 
1 This includes the Group’s shareholding held under trading books 0.06% (2023: 0.09%).
20 Structured entities
HSBC is mainly involved with both consolidated and unconsolidated structured entities through the securitisation of financial assets, conduits 
and investment funds, established either by HSBC or a third party.
Consolidated structured entities
Total assets of HSBC’s consolidated structured entities, split by entity type
Conduits
Securitisations
HSBC managed funds
Other
Total
$bn
$bn
$bn
$bn
$bn
At 31 Dec 2024
 
2.4 
7.0 
7.2 
1.8 
18.4 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
3.6 
7.8 
5.5 
8.2 
25.1 
Conduits
HSBC has established and manages two types of conduits: securities investment conduits (‘SICs’) and multi-seller conduits.
Securities investment conduits
The SICs purchase highly rated ABSs to facilitate tailored investment opportunities.
–
At 31 December 2024, Solitaire, HSBC’s principal SIC, held $0.7bn of ABSs (2023: $1.0bn). It is currently funded entirely by commercial 
paper (‘CP’) issued to HSBC. At 31 December 2024, HSBC held $1.0bn of CP (2023: $1.3bn).
Multi-seller conduit
HSBC’s multi-seller conduit was established to provide access to flexible market-based sources of finance for its clients. Currently, HSBC bears 
risk equal to the transaction-specific facility offered to the multi-seller conduit, amounting to $5.2bn at 31 December 2024 (2023: $6.1bn). First 
loss protection is provided by the originator of the assets, and not by HSBC, through transaction-specific credit enhancements. A layer of loss 
protection is provided by HSBC in the form of a programme-wide enhancement facility.
Securitisations
HSBC uses structured entities to securitise customer loans and advances it originates in order to diversify its sources of funding for asset 
origination and capital efficiency purposes. The loans and advances are transferred by HSBC to the structured entities for cash or synthetically, 
and the structured entities issue debt securities to investors. Where synthetic securitisations are used, the credit risk associated with the loan 
portfolio of assets is transferred to the structured entities through loan portfolio financial guarantees. 
HSBC managed funds
HSBC has established a number of money market and non-money market funds. Where it is deemed to be acting as principal rather than agent 
in its role as investment manager, HSBC controls these funds.
Other
HSBC has entered into a number of transactions in the normal course of business, which include asset and structured finance transactions 
where it has control of the structured entity. In addition, HSBC is deemed to control a number of third-party managed funds through its 
involvement as a principal in the funds.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
407
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Unconsolidated structured entities
The term ‘unconsolidated structured entities’ refers to all structured entities not controlled by HSBC. The Group enters into transactions with 
unconsolidated structured entities in the normal course of business to facilitate customer transactions and for specific investment 
opportunities.
Nature and risks associated with HSBC interests in unconsolidated structured entities
Securitisations
HSBC managed 
funds
Non-HSBC 
managed funds
Other
Total
Total asset values of the entities ($m)
0–500
 
167 
344 
1,215 
46 
1,772 
500–2,000
 
2 
75 
911 
2 
990 
2,000–5,000
 
— 
30 
348 
1 
379 
5,000–25,000
 
— 
21 
212 
— 
233 
25,000+
 
— 
2 
33 
— 
35 
Number of entities at 31 Dec 2024
 
169 
472 
2,719 
49 
3,409 
$bn
$bn
$bn
$bn
$bn
Total assets in relation to HSBC’s interests in the unconsolidated 
structured entities
 
5.4 
12.1 
25.4 
2.4 
45.3 
– trading assets 
 
— 
0.1 
— 
— 
0.1 
– financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily 
measured at fair value through profit or loss
 
— 
7.8 
22.2 
— 
30.0 
– loans and advances to customers
 
5.4 
— 
0.7 
1.5 
7.6 
– financial investments 
 
— 
0.2 
0.4 
— 
0.6 
– assets held for sale
 
— 
4.0 
2.1 
— 
6.1 
– other assets 
 
— 
— 
— 
0.9 
0.9 
Total liabilities in relation to HSBC’s interests in the 
unconsolidated structured entities
 
— 
— 
— 
0.4 
0.4 
– other liabilities 
 
— 
— 
— 
0.4 
0.4 
Other off-balance sheet commitments
 
— 
1.0 
8.1 
1.3 
10.4 
HSBC’s maximum exposure at 31 Dec 2024
 
5.4 
13.1 
33.5 
3.3 
55.3 
Total asset values of the entities ($m)
0–500
 
120 
337 
1,271 
42 
1,770 
500–2,000
 
4 
96 
1,069 
3 
1,172 
2,000–5,000
 
— 
39 
418 
— 
457 
5,000–25,000
 
— 
24 
217 
— 
241 
25,000+
 
— 
3 
11 
— 
14 
Number of entities at 31 Dec 2023
 
124 
499 
2,986 
45 
3,654 
$bn
$bn
$bn
$bn
$bn
Total assets in relation to HSBC’s interests in the unconsolidated 
structured entities
 
3.2 
13.9 
20.7 
3.3 
41.1 
– trading assets 
 
— 
0.6 
— 
— 
0.6 
– financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily 
measured at fair value through profit or loss
 
— 
12.6 
19.7 
— 
32.3 
– loans and advances to customers
 
3.2 
— 
0.6 
2.5 
6.3 
– financial investments 
 
— 
0.7 
0.4 
— 
1.1 
– other assets 
 
— 
— 
— 
0.8 
0.8 
Total liabilities in relation to HSBC’s interests in the 
unconsolidated structured entities
 
— 
— 
— 
0.3 
0.3 
– other liabilities 
 
— 
— 
— 
0.3 
0.3 
Other off-balance sheet commitments
 
0.1 
1.9 
5.0 
1.2 
8.2 
HSBC’s maximum exposure at 31 Dec 2023
 
3.3 
15.8 
25.7 
4.2 
49.0 
 
 
The maximum exposure to loss from HSBC’s interests in unconsolidated structured entities represents the maximum loss it could incur as a 
result of its involvement with these entities regardless of the probability of the loss being incurred.
–
For commitments, guarantees and written credit default swaps, the maximum exposure to loss is the notional amount of potential future 
losses.
–
For retained and purchased investments and loans to unconsolidated structured entities, the maximum exposure to loss is the carrying 
amount of these interests at the balance sheet reporting date.
The maximum exposure to loss is stated gross of the effects of hedging and collateral arrangements that HSBC has entered into in order to 
mitigate the Group’s exposure to loss.
Securitisations
HSBC has interests in unconsolidated securitisation vehicles through holding notes issued by these entities. In addition, HSBC has investments 
in ABSs issued by third-party structured entities.
HSBC managed funds
HSBC establishes and manages money market funds and non-money market investment funds to provide customers with investment 
opportunities. Further information on funds under management is provided on page 107.
HSBC, as fund manager, may be entitled to receive management and performance fees based on the assets under management. HSBC may 
also retain units in these funds.
Notes on the financial statements
408
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Non-HSBC managed funds
HSBC purchases and holds units of third-party managed funds in order to facilitate business and meet customer needs.
Other
HSBC has established structured entities in the normal course of business, such as structured credit transactions for customers, to provide 
finance to public and private sector infrastructure projects, and for asset and structured finance transactions.
In addition to the interests disclosed above, HSBC enters into derivative contracts, reverse repos and stock borrowing transactions with 
structured entities. These interests arise in the normal course of business for the facilitation of third-party transactions and risk management 
solutions.
HSBC sponsored structured entities
The amount of assets transferred to and income received from such sponsored structured entities during 2024 and 2023 was not significant.
21 Goodwill and intangible assets
2024
2023
$m
$m
Goodwill
 
4,118 
4,323 
Other intangible assets1
 
8,266 
8,164 
At 31 Dec
 
12,384 
12,487 
1 Included within other intangible assets is internally generated software with a net carrying amount of $7,100m (2023: $6,895m). During the year, capitalisation 
of internally generated software was $2,476m (2023: $2,306m), impairment was $67m (2023: reversal impairment of $285m) and amortisation was $1,995m 
(2023: $1,877m).
Movement analysis of goodwill
2024
2023
$m
$m
Gross amount
At 1 Jan 
 
19,560 
18,965 
Exchange differences
 
(962) 
523 
Reclassified to held for sale and additions1
 
28 
73 
Other
 
— 
(1) 
At 31 Dec
 
18,626 
19,560 
Accumulated impairment losses
At 1 Jan
 
(15,237) 
(14,809) 
Exchange differences
 
716 
(428) 
Reclassified to held for sale1
 
13 
— 
At 31 Dec
 
(14,508) 
(15,237) 
Net carrying amount at 31 Dec
 
4,118 
4,323 
1
Includes goodwill arising from acquisition of Silkroad, offset by goodwill reclassified to held for sale associated with sales of HSBC Bank Armenia, private 
banking business in Germany, and planned sale of HSBC Assurances Vie (France). For further details, see Note 23.
Goodwill
Impairment testing
The Group’s impairment test in respect of goodwill allocated to each cash-generating unit (‘CGU’) is performed at 1 October each year. A 
review for indicators of impairment is undertaken at each subsequent quarter-end and at 31 December 2024. No indicators of impairment were 
identified as part of these reviews.
Basis of the recoverable amount
The recoverable amount of all CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated was equal to its value in use (‘VIU’) at each respective testing date. 
The VIU is calculated by discounting management’s cash flow projections for the CGU. The key assumptions used in the VIU calculation for 
each individually significant CGU that is not impaired are discussed below.
Key assumptions in VIU calculation – significant CGUs at 1 October 20241
Carrying 
amount at 
1 Oct 2024
of which 
goodwill
Value in 
use at 
1 Oct 2024
Discount 
rate
Growth 
rate
beyond 
initial
cash flow
Carrying 
amount at 
1 Oct 2023
of which 
goodwill
Value in 
use at 
1 Oct 2023
Discount
rate
Growth 
rate 
beyond initial 
cash flow 
projections
$m
$m
$m
%
%
$m
$m
$m
%
%
HSBC UK 
Bank plc – 
WPB
 
12,785 
2,843 
27,118 
 
10.6 
 
2.0 
11,167 
2,597 
27,933 
 
10.4 
 
2.0 
1 For impacts arising from the revised organisational structure effective from 1 January 2025, see Note 1.2(a).
At 1 October 2024, aggregate goodwill of $1,493m (1 October 2023: $1,599m) had been allocated to CGUs that were not considered 
individually significant. The Group’s CGUs do not carry on their balance sheets any significant intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, other 
than goodwill.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
409
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Management’s judgement in estimating the cash flows of a CGU
The Group does not consider there to be a significant risk of a material adjustment to the carrying amount of goodwill in the next financial year, 
but does consider this to be an area that is inherently judgemental. The cash flow projections for each CGU are based on forecast profitability 
plans approved by the Board and minimum capital levels required to support the business operations of a CGU. The Board challenges and 
endorses planning assumptions in light of internal capital allocation decisions necessary to support our strategy, current market conditions and 
macroeconomic outlook. For the 1 October 2024 impairment test, cash flow projections until the end of 2029 were considered, in line with our 
internal planning horizon. Key assumptions underlying cash flow projections reflect management’s outlook on interest rates and inflation, as 
well as business strategy, including the scale of investment in technology and automation. Our cash flow projections include known and 
observable climate-related opportunities and costs associated with our sustainable products and operating model. As required by IFRS 
Accounting Standards, estimates of future cash flows exclude estimated cash inflows or outflows that are expected to arise from restructuring 
initiatives before an entity has a constructive obligation to carry out the plan, and would therefore have recognised a provision for restructuring 
costs. 
Discount rate
The rate used to discount the cash flows is based on the cost of equity assigned to each CGU, which is derived using a capital asset pricing 
model (‘CAPM’) and market implied cost of equity. CAPM depends on a number of inputs reflecting financial and economic variables, including 
the risk-free rate and a premium to reflect the inherent risk of the business being evaluated. These variables are based on the market’s 
assessment of the economic variables and management’s judgement. The discount rates for each CGU are refined to reflect the rates of 
inflation for the countries within which the CGU operates. In addition, for the purposes of testing goodwill for impairment, management 
supplements this process by comparing the discount rates derived using the internally generated CAPM, with the cost of equity rates produced 
by external sources for businesses operating in similar markets. The impacts of climate risk are included to the extent that they are observable 
in discount rates and asset prices.
Long-term growth rate
The long-term growth rate is used to extrapolate the cash flows in perpetuity because of the long-term perspective within the Group of 
business units making up the CGUs. These growth rates reflect inflation for the countries within which the CGU operates or from which it 
derives revenue.
Sensitivities of key assumptions in calculating VIU
At 1 October 2024, given the extent by which VIU exceeds carrying amount, the HSBC UK WPB CGU was not sensitive to reasonably possible 
adverse changes in key assumptions supporting the recoverable amount. In making an estimate of reasonably possible changes to 
assumptions, management considers the available evidence in respect of each input to the VIU calculation, such as the external range of 
discount rates observable, historical performance against forecast and risks attaching to the key assumptions underlying cash flow projections. 
None of the remaining CGUs are individually significant.
Other intangible assets
Impairment testing
Impairment of other intangible assets is assessed in accordance with our policy explained in Note 1.2(n) by comparing the net carrying amount 
of CGUs containing intangible assets with their recoverable amounts. Recoverable amounts are determined by calculating an estimated VIU or 
fair value, as appropriate, for each CGU. No significant impairment was recognised during the year.
Key assumptions in VIU calculation
The Group does not consider there to be a significant risk of a material adjustment to the carrying amount of other intangible assets in the next 
financial year, but does consider this to be an area that is inherently judgemental. We used a number of assumptions in our VIU calculation, in 
accordance with the requirements of IAS 36:
–
Management’s judgement in estimating future cash flows: We considered past business performance, current market conditions and our 
macroeconomic outlook to estimate future earnings. As required by IFRS Accounting Standards, estimates of future cash flows exclude 
estimated cash inflows or outflows that are expected to arise from restructuring initiatives before an entity has a constructive obligation to 
carry out the plan, and would therefore have recognised a provision for restructuring costs. For some businesses, this means that the 
benefit of certain strategic actions may not be included in the impairment assessment, including capital releases. Our cash flow projections 
include known and observable climate-related opportunities and costs associated with our sustainable products and operating model.
–
Long-term growth rates: The long-term growth rate is used to extrapolate the cash flows in perpetuity because of the long-term perspective 
of the businesses within the Group.
–
Discount rates: Rates are based on a combination of CAPM and market-implied calculations considering market data for the businesses and 
geographies in which the Group operates. The impacts of climate risk are included to the extent that they are observable in discount rates 
and asset prices.
Sensitivity of estimates relating to non-financial assets 
As explained in Note 1.2(a), estimates of future cash flows for CGUs are made in the review of goodwill and non-financial assets for 
impairment. Non-financial assets include other intangible assets shown above, and owned property, plant and equipment and right-of-use 
assets (see Note 22). The most significant sources of estimation uncertainty are in respect of the goodwill balances disclosed above. There are 
no non-financial asset balances relating to individual CGUs which involve estimation uncertainty that represents a significant risk of resulting in 
a material adjustment to the results and financial position of the Group within the next financial year. 
Non-financial assets are widely distributed across CGUs within the legal entities of the Group, including Corporate Centre assets that cannot be 
allocated to CGUs and are therefore tested for impairment at consolidated level. The recoverable amounts of other intangible assets, owned 
property, plant and equipment, and right-of-use assets cannot be lower than individual asset fair values less costs to dispose, where relevant. 
At 31 December 2024 none of the CGUs were sensitive to reasonably possible adverse changes in key assumptions supporting the 
recoverable amount. In making an estimate of reasonably possible changes to assumptions, management considers the available evidence in 
respect of each input to the VIU calculation, such as the external range of discount rates observable, historical performance against forecast 
and risks attaching to the key assumptions underlying cash flow projections.
Notes on the financial statements
410
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

22 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets
2024
2023
$m
$m
Prepayments and accrued income
 
13,781 
13,854 
Settlement accounts and items in course of collection from other banks
 
19,050 
39,195 
Cash collateral and margin receivables
 
59,488 
57,058 
Bullion 
 
16,841 
13,701 
Endorsements and acceptances 
 
8,093 
7,939 
Insurance contract assets (Note 4) 
 
132 
252 
Reinsurance contract assets 
 
4,798 
4,728 
Employee benefit assets (Note 5)
 
7,548 
7,750 
Right-of-use assets
 
2,205 
2,456 
Owned property, plant and equipment
 
9,407 
10,478 
Other accounts 
 
11,397 
14,186 
At 31 Dec1
 
152,740 
171,597 
1 Prepayments, accrued income and other assets include $109,336m (2023: $129,203m) of financial assets, the majority of which are measured at amortised 
cost.
23 Assets held for sale, liabilities of disposal groups held for sale and 
business acquisitions
2024
2023
$m
$m
Held for sale at 31 Dec
Disposal groups
 
27,126 
115,836 
Unallocated impairment losses1
 
(31) 
(1,975) 
Non-current assets held for sale
 
139 
273 
Assets held for sale
 
27,234 
114,134 
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale
 
29,011 
108,406 
1 This represents impairment losses in excess of the carrying value of the non-current assets, excluded from the measurement scope of IFRS 5. 
Disposal groups
France retail banking operations
On 1 January 2024, HSBC Continental Europe completed the sale of its retail banking business in France to CCF, a subsidiary of Promontoria 
MMB SAS (‘My Money Group’). The sale also included HSBC Continental Europe’s 100% ownership interest in HSBC SFH (France) and its 3% 
ownership interest in Crédit Logement.
Upon completion and in accordance with the terms of the sale, HSBC Continental Europe received a €0.1bn ($0.1bn) profit participation interest 
in the ultimate holding company of My Money Group. The associated impacts on initial recognition of this stake at fair value were recognised as 
part of the pre-tax loss on disposal in 2023, upon the reclassification of the disposal group as held for sale. In accordance with the terms of the 
sale, HSBC Continental Europe retained a portfolio of €7.1bn ($7.4bn) at the time of the sale, consisting of home and certain other loans, and 
the CCF brand, which it licensed to the buyer under a long-term licence agreement. Additionally, HSBC Continental Europe’s subsidiaries, 
HSBC Assurances Vie (France) and HSBC Global Asset Management (France), entered into distribution agreements with the buyer. 
The customer lending balances and associated income statement impacts of the portfolio of retained loans, together with the profit 
participation interest and the licence agreement of the CCF brand, were reclassified from WPB to Corporate Centre, with effect from 1 January 
2024.
During the fourth quarter of 2024, we began the process of marketing the retained home and other loan portfolio for sale, which had a carrying 
value of €6.7bn ($6.9bn) at 31 December 2024. As a result, we reclassified the portfolio to a hold-to-collect-and-sell business model from 
1 January 2025 and will measure it prospectively from the first quarter of 2025 at fair value through other comprehensive income. We expect to 
recognise an estimated $1bn fair value pre-tax loss in other comprehensive income on the remeasurement of the financial instruments. The 
valuation of this portfolio of loans may be substantially different in the event of a sale due to entity and deal-specific factors, including funding 
costs and the value of customer relationships. In the event of a sale, upon completion, the cumulative fair value changes recognised through 
other comprehensive income, which would reflect the terms of an agreed sale, would reclassify to the income statement. In December 2024, 
we entered into non-qualifying economic hedges, hedging interest rate risk on the portfolio and recognised a $0.1bn mark-to-market gain yearto-date.
Canada banking business
On 28 March 2024, HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited, a direct subsidiary of HSBC Holdings plc, completed the sale of HSBC Bank Canada 
to the Royal Bank of Canada. 
The completion of the transaction resulted in a gain on sale of $4.8bn, inclusive of the recycling of $0.6bn in foreign currency translation reserve 
losses and $0.4bn in other reserves losses. The gain on sale also included $0.3bn in fair value gains recognised on the related foreign exchange 
hedges in the first quarter of 2024. There was no tax on the gain recognised at completion due to the substantial shareholding exemption rule 
in the UK. 
Following the completion of this transaction, the Board approved a special dividend of $0.21 per share, which was paid in June 2024 alongside 
the first interim dividend.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
411
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Argentina business
On 6 December 2024, HSBC Latin America B.V. completed the sale of its business in Argentina to Grupo Financiero Galicia (‘Galicia‘). 
Galicia acquired all of HSBC Argentina’s business covering banking, asset management and insurance, together with $100m of subordinated 
debt issued by HSBC Argentina and held by HSBC Latin America Holdings (UK) Limited for a base consideration of $550m. The consideration 
was adjusted for the results of the business and fair value gains or losses on HSBC Argentina’s securities portfolios during the period between 
31 December 2023 and 30 November 2024. HSBC received the purchase consideration in a combination of cash and Galicia’s American 
Depositary Receipts (‘ADRs‘), with ADRs representing less than a 10% economic interest in Galicia. At 31 December 2024, the fair value of the 
ADRs received and held as fair value through profit and loss was $0.7bn.
For the year ended 31 December 2024, we recognised a $1.0bn pre-tax loss and we recycled $5.2bn foreign currency reserve and other 
reserve losses to the income statement on completion. There was no tax deduction on the loss recognised. 
Other disposals
On 30 May 2024, HSBC Europe BV, a wholly-owned subsidiary of HSBC Bank plc, completed the sale of HSBC Bank (RR) (Limited Liability 
Company) to Expobank. Foreign currency translation reserve losses of $0.1bn were recognised in the income statement upon completion.
On 6 July 2024, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited (acting through its Mauritius branch) completed the sale of its 
Wealth and Personal Banking business in Mauritius to Absa Bank (Mauritius) Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Absa Group Limited. The 
financial impact of the sale was not significant for the Group. 
On 23 September 2024, HSBC Continental Europe, a wholly owned subsidiary of HSBC Bank plc, reached an agreement to sell its private 
banking business in Germany to BNP Paribas and the disposal group met the held for sale criteria at 31 December 2024. This sale, which 
remains subject to works council consultation, is expected to be completed in the second half of 2025. The sale is expected to generate an 
estimated pre-tax gain on disposal of $0.2bn, which will be recognised on completion.
On 25 September 2024, HSBC reached an agreement to transfer its business in South Africa to local lender FirstRand Bank Ltd and the 
disposal group met the held for sale criteria at 31 December 2024. The transaction, which is subject to regulatory and governmental approvals, 
is expected to complete in the second half of 2025. At closing, cumulative foreign currency translation reserves and other reserves will recycle 
to the income statement. At 31 December 2024, foreign currency translation reserve and other reserve losses stood at $0.2bn.
On 29 November 2024, HSBC Europe BV completed the sale of HSBC Bank Armenia to Ardshinbank with a year-to-date loss of $0.1bn 
recognised.
On 20 December 2024, HSBC Continental Europe signed a Memorandum of Understanding (‘MoU’) for the planned sale of its French life 
insurance business, HSBC Assurances Vie (France), to Matmut Société d’Assurance Mutuelle. The transaction, which is subject to regulatory 
approvals and employee consultation, is expected to complete in the second half of 2025. The disposal group met the held for sale criteria at 
31 December 2024, resulting in the reclassification of $24.2bn in assets and $23.4bn in liabilities to held for sale, and the recognition of an 
immaterial loss on disposal. The total pre-tax loss at completion is estimated at $0.2bn inclusive of migration costs and the recycling of 
cumulative foreign currency translation reserves, insurance finance reserves and other reserves which stood at a net loss of $0.1bn as at 
31 December 2024.
At 31 December 2024, the major classes of assets and associated liabilities of disposal groups held for sale, excluding allocated impairment 
losses, were as follows:
French Life 
Insurance Business
German Private 
Banking Business
South Africa1
Other
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Assets of disposal groups held for sale
Cash and balances at central banks
 
— 
1,896 
— 
— 
1,896 
Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily 
measured at fair value through profit or loss
 
14,560 
— 
— 
— 
14,560 
Derivatives
 
26 
— 
10 
— 
36 
Loans and advances to banks
 
144 
— 
— 
— 
144 
Loans and advances to customers 
 
— 
309 
656 
— 
965 
Financial investments2
 
8,500 
— 
— 
— 
8,500 
Goodwill
 
— 
5 
— 
— 
5 
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 
 
992 
21 
7 
— 
1,020 
Total assets at 31 Dec 2024
 
24,222 
2,231 
673 
— 
27,126 
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale
Customer accounts 
 
— 
2,085 
3,294 
20 
5,399 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value
 
11 
119 
— 
— 
130 
Derivatives
 
— 
— 
19 
— 
19 
Insurance contract liabilities
 
21,811 
— 
— 
— 
21,811 
Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 
 
1,598 
22 
32 
— 
1,652 
Total liabilities at 31 Dec 2024
 
23,420 
2,226 
3,345 
20 
29,011 
Expected date of completion
Second half of 2025
Second half of 2025
Second half of 2025
Operating segment
WPB
WPB
GBM and
 Corporate Centre
1 Under the financial terms of the sale of our South Africa business, HSBC Bank plc will transfer the business with a net asset value of $0.7bn for a book value 
less any provisions. The purchase price will be satisfied by the transfer of agreed liabilities of $3.3bn. Any required increase to the net asset value of the 
business to achieve this will be satisfied by the inclusion of additional cash. Based upon the net liabilities of the disposal group at 31 December 2024, HSBC 
would be expected to include a cash contribution of $2.6bn.
2 Represents financial investments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income.
Notes on the financial statements
412
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

At 31 December 2023, the major classes of assets and associated liabilities of disposal groups held for sale, excluding allocated impairment 
losses, were as follows:
Canada
Retail banking 
operations in France
Other
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
Assets of disposal groups held for sale
Cash and balances at central banks
 
5,370 
226 
— 
5,596 
Trading assets
 
2,465 
— 
— 
2,465 
Financial assets designated and otherwise mandatorily measured at fair value through 
profit or loss
 
15 
49 
— 
64 
Derivatives
 
528 
— 
— 
528 
Loans and advances to banks
 
154 
10,333 
— 
10,487 
Loans and advances to customers 
 
56,129 
16,902 
254 
73,285 
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
 
2,723 
— 
— 
2,723 
Financial investments1
 
16,978 
33 
— 
17,011 
Goodwill
 
225 
— 
— 
225 
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets 
 
3,318 
132 
2 
3,452 
Total assets at 31 Dec 2023
 
87,905 
27,675 
256 
115,836 
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale
Trading liabilities
 
1,417 
— 
— 
1,417 
Deposits by banks
 
78 
— 
— 
78 
Customer accounts 
 
63,001 
22,307 
642 
85,950 
Repurchase agreements – non-trading
 
2,768 
— 
— 
2,768 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value
 
— 
2,370 
— 
2,370 
Derivatives
 
608 
7 
— 
615 
Debt securities in issue 
 
7,707 
1,377 
— 
9,084 
Subordinated liabilities
 
8 
— 
— 
8 
Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities 
 
5,916 
196 
4 
6,116 
Total liabilities at 31 Dec 2023
 
81,503 
26,257 
646 
108,406 
Date of completion
28 March 2024
1 January 2024
Operating segment
All global 
businesses
WPB
1 Includes financial investments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income of $9.4bn and debt instruments measured at amortised cost of 
$7.6bn.
Business acquisitions
In October 2023, HSBC Global Asset Management Singapore Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited, entered into an agreement to acquire 100% of the shares of Silkroad Property Partners Pte Ltd (‘Silkroad’) and for HSBC 
Global Asset Management Limited to acquire Silkroad’s affiliated General Partner entities. Silkroad is a Singapore headquartered Asia-Pacificfocused, real estate investment manager. The acquisition was completed on 31 January 2024.
In October 2023, HSBC Bank (China) Company Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
Limited, entered into an agreement to acquire Citibank China’s retail wealth management portfolio in mainland China. The portfolio comprises 
assets under management and deposits and the associated wealth customers. The acquisition was completed on 7 June 2024. 
The financial impact of these business acquisitions was not significant for the Group. 
24 Trading liabilities 
2024
2023
$m
$m
Deposits by banks1
 
7,671 
6,779 
Customer accounts1
 
10,709 
8,955 
Other debt securities in issue (Note 26)
 
73 
27 
Other liabilities – net short positions in securities
 
47,529 
57,389 
At 31 Dec
 
65,982 
73,150 
1
‘Deposits by banks’ and ‘Customer accounts’ include repos, stock lending and other amounts.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
413
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

25 Financial liabilities designated at fair value 
HSBC
2024
2023
$m
$m
Deposits by banks and customer accounts1
 
23,773 
21,043 
Liabilities to customers under investment contracts
 
5,931 
5,103 
Debt securities in issue (Note 26)
 
99,706 
103,803 
Subordinated liabilities (Note 29)
 
9,317 
11,477 
At 31 Dec
 
138,727 
141,426 
1 Structured deposits placed at HSBC Bank USA are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, a US government agency, up to $250,000 per 
depositor.
The carrying amount of financial liabilities designated at fair value was $4,365m less than the contractual amount at maturity (2023: $4,421m 
less). The cumulative amount of change in fair value attributable to changes in credit risk was a loss of $1,655m (2023: loss of $1,286m). 
HSBC Holdings 
2024
2023
$m
$m
Debt securities in issue (Note 26)
 
33,268 
35,189 
Subordinated liabilities (Note 29)
 
8,314 
8,449 
At 31 Dec
 
41,582 
43,638 
The carrying amount of financial liabilities designated at fair value was $17m less than the contractual amount at maturity (2023: $246m less). 
The cumulative amount of change in fair value attributable to changes in credit risk was a loss of $540m (2023: $682m).
 
26 Debt securities in issue
HSBC
2024
2023
$m
$m
Bonds and medium-term notes 
 
163,903 
160,632 
Other debt securities in issue 
 
41,661 
37,115 
Total debt securities in issue
 
205,564 
197,747 
Included within:
– trading liabilities (Note 24)
 
(73) 
(27) 
– financial liabilities designated at fair value (Note 25)
 
(99,706) 
(103,803) 
At 31 Dec
 
105,785 
93,917 
 
HSBC Holdings
2024
2023
$m
$m
Debt securities 
 
97,588 
100,428 
Included within:
– financial liabilities designated at fair value (Note 25)
 
(33,268) 
(35,189) 
At 31 Dec
 
64,320 
65,239 
 
27 Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities
2024
2023
$m
$m
Accruals and deferred income
 
16,277 
16,814 
Settlement accounts and items in course of transmission to other banks
 
24,692 
35,718 
Cash collateral and margin payables
 
58,040 
56,832 
Endorsements and acceptances
 
8,102 
7,911 
Employee benefit liabilities (Note 5)
 
1,017 
1,160 
Reinsurance contract liabilities
 
701 
819 
Lease liabilities
 
2,459 
2,813 
Other liabilities
 
19,052 
21,834 
At 31 Dec1
 
130,340 
143,901 
1 Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities include $122,051m (2023: $136,696m) of financial liabilities, the majority of which are measured at amortised 
cost.
Notes on the financial statements
414
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

28 
Provisions
Restructuring
costs
Legal 
proceedings
and regulatory
matters
Customer
remediation
Other
provisions
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Provisions (excluding contractual commitments)
At 1 Jan 2024
 
284 
380 
130 
420 
1,214 
Additions
 
181 
205 
36 
203 
625 
Amounts utilised
 
(193) 
(228) 
(48) 
(105) 
(574) 
Unused amounts reversed
 
(63) 
(63) 
(35) 
(82) 
(243) 
Exchange and other movements
 
(10) 
1 
2 
21 
14 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
199 
295 
85 
457 
1,036 
Contractual commitments1
At 1 Jan 2024
 
527 
Net change in expected credit loss provision and other movements
 
161 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
688 
Total provisions
At 31 Dec 2023
 
1,741 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
1,724 
Provisions (excluding contractual commitments)
At 1 Jan 2023
 
445 
409 
195 
397 
1,446 
Additions
 
255 
236 
37 
170 
698 
Amounts utilised
 
(288) 
(231) 
(69) 
(68) 
(656) 
Unused amounts reversed
 
(149) 
(30) 
(41) 
(95) 
(315) 
Exchange and other movements
 
21 
(4) 
8 
16 
41 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
284 
380 
130 
420 
1,214 
Contractual commitments1
At 1 Jan 2023
 
512 
Net change in expected credit loss provision and other movements
 
15 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
527 
Total provisions
At 31 Dec 2022
 
1,958 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
1,741 
1 Contractual commitments include the expected credit loss provision in relation to off-balance sheet financial guarantee contracts and commitments where 
HSBC has become party to an irrevocable commitment, as defined under IFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’; and provisions for performance and other guarantee 
contracts.
Further details of ‘Legal proceedings and regulatory matters’ are set out in Note 35. Legal proceedings include civil court, arbitration or tribunal 
proceedings brought against HSBC companies (whether by way of claim or counterclaim); or civil disputes that may, if not settled, result in 
court, arbitration or tribunal proceedings. ‘Regulatory matters’ refers to investigations, reviews and other actions carried out by, or in response 
to, the actions of regulators or law enforcement agencies in connection with alleged wrongdoing by HSBC.
Customer remediation refers to HSBC’s activities to compensate customers for losses or damages associated with a failure to comply with 
regulations or to treat customers fairly. Customer remediation is often initiated by HSBC in response to customer complaints and/or industry 
developments in sales practices, and is not necessarily initiated by regulatory action. 
For further details of the impact of IFRS 9 on undrawn loan commitments and financial guarantees, presented in ‘Contractual commitments’, 
see Note 33. Further analysis of the movement in the expected credit loss provision is disclosed within the ‘Reconciliation of changes in gross 
carrying/nominal amount and allowances for loans and advances to banks and customers including loan commitments and financial guarantees‘ 
table on page 161.
Brazil PIS and COFINS tax matters
Beginning in the late 1990s, HSBC Bank Brasil S.A. – Banco Múltiplo (‘HSBC Brazil’) and other financial services firms brought legal proceedings 
in Brazil challenging the assessment of PIS and COFINS taxes, which are federal taxes imposed on gross revenues earned by legal entities in 
Brazil. The Supreme Court of Brazil selected three cases – one involving an insurer, in 2007, and two involving other banks, in 2011 – to set 
standards that would apply to all of these proceedings. In June 2023, the court ruled against the financial services firms in all three cases. The 
standards set by the court in this ruling have not yet been applied to HSBC Brazil’s legacy cases, liability for which remained with HSBC after 
the sale of HSBC’s operations in Brazil to Bradesco in 2016. There are many factors that may affect the range of outcomes and any resulting 
financial impact for HSBC. Based upon the information currently available, a provision was recognised in respect of one legacy case. The 
remaining additional tax liability subject to challenge on all legacy PIS and COFINS cases is up to $0.4bn. As at 31 December 2024, no provision 
has been booked for this amount.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
415
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

29 Subordinated liabilities
HSBC’s subordinated liabilities
2024
2023
$m
$m
At amortised cost
 
25,958 
24,954 
– subordinated liabilities
 
25,080 
23,149 
– preferred securities
 
878 
1,805 
Designated at fair value (Note 25)
 
9,317 
11,477 
– subordinated liabilities
 
9,317 
11,477 
– preferred securities
 
— 
— 
At 31 Dec
 
35,275 
36,431 
Issued by HSBC subsidiaries
 
3,144 
4,154 
Issued by HSBC Holdings
 
32,131 
32,277 
Subordinated liabilities rank behind senior obligations and generally count towards the capital base of HSBC. Capital securities may be called 
and redeemed by HSBC subject to prior notification to the PRA and, where relevant, the consent of the local banking regulator. If not redeemed 
at the first call date, coupons payable may reset or become floating rate based on relevant market rates. On subordinated liabilities other than 
floating rate notes, interest is payable at fixed rates of up to 8.201%.
The balance sheet amounts disclosed in the following table are presented on an IFRS basis and do not reflect the amount that the instruments 
contribute to regulatory capital, principally due to regulatory amortisation and regulatory eligibility limits.
HSBC’s subordinated liabilities: subsidiaries
2024
2023
$m
$m
Additional tier 1 capital securities issued by HSBC subsidiaries1
 
732 
1,672 
Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC subsidiaries 
– Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Bank plc 
 
715 
764 
– Tier 2 securities issued by The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited 
 
— 
– Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Bank USA Inc 
 
223 
223 
– Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Bank USA N.A.
 
1,431 
1,449 
Securities issued by other HSBC subsidiaries 
 
43 
46 
Subordinated liabilities issued by HSBC subsidiaries at 31 Dec
 
3,144 
4,154 
1 The $900m 10.176% security issued by HSBC Capital Funding (Dollar 1) L.P. was redeemed on 31 October 2024.
HSBC Holdings’ subordinated liabilities
2024
2023
$m
$m
At amortised cost 
 
23,548 
24,439 
Designated at fair value (Note 25)
 
8,314 
8,449 
At 31 Dec
 
31,862 
32,888 
HSBC Holdings’ subordinated liabilities in issue
2024
2023
$m
$m
Tier 2 securities issued by HSBC Holdings
Amounts owed to third parties
 
31,862 
31,975 
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings1
 
— 
913 
Subordinated liabilities issued by HSBC Holdings at 31 Dec
 
31,862 
32,888 
1 The $900m 10.176% security issued by HSBC Holdings to HSBC Capital Funding (Dollar 1) L.P. was redeemed on 31 October 2024.
Notes on the financial statements
416
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Guaranteed by HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank plc
Capital securities guaranteed by HSBC Holdings or HSBC Bank plc were issued by the Jersey limited partnerships. The proceeds of these were 
lent to the respective guarantors by the limited partnerships in the form of subordinated notes. They qualified as additional tier 1 capital for 
HSBC under CRR II until 31 December 2021 by virtue of the application of grandfathering provisions. The capital securities guaranteed by HSBC 
Bank plc also qualified as additional tier 1 capital for HSBC Bank plc (on a solo and a consolidated basis) under CRR II until 31 December 2021 
by virtue of the same grandfathering process. Since 31 December 2021, these securities have no longer qualified as regulatory capital for HSBC 
Holdings or HSBC Bank plc. On 31 October 2024, the capital securities guaranteed by HSBC Holdings were redeemed.
As at 31 December 2024 the preferred securities guaranteed by HSBC Bank plc are intended to provide investors with rights to income and 
capital distributions, as well as distributions upon liquidation of the issuer that are equivalent to the rights that they would have had if they had 
purchased non-cumulative perpetual preference shares of the issuer. There are limitations on the payment of distributions if such payments are 
prohibited under UK banking regulations or other requirements, if a payment would cause a breach of HSBC Bank plc’s capital adequacy 
requirements, or if HSBC Bank plc has insufficient distributable reserves (as defined).
HSBC Bank plc have covenanted that, if prevented under certain circumstances from paying distributions on the preferred securities in full, they 
will not pay dividends or other distributions in respect of their ordinary shares, or repurchase or redeem their ordinary shares, until the 
distribution on the preferred securities has been paid in full.
If the preferred securities guaranteed by HSBC Bank plc are outstanding in November 2048, or if the total capital ratio of HSBC Bank plc (on a 
solo or consolidated basis) falls below the regulatory minimum required, or if the Directors expect it to do so in the near term, provided that 
proceedings have not been commenced for the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of HSBC Bank plc, the holders’ interests in the preferred 
security guaranteed by HSBC Bank plc will be exchanged for interests in preference shares issued by HSBC Bank plc that have economic 
terms which are in all material respects equivalent to the preferred security and its guarantee. 
Tier 2 securities
Tier 2 capital securities are either perpetual or dated subordinated securities on which there is an obligation to pay coupons. These capital 
securities are included within HSBC’s regulatory capital base as tier 2 capital under CRR II, either as fully eligible capital or by virtue of the 
application of grandfathering provisions. In accordance with CRR II, the capital contribution of all tier 2 securities is amortised for regulatory 
purposes in their final five years before maturity.
30 Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments
The table on page 418 provides an analysis of consolidated total assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments by residual contractual 
maturity at the balance sheet date. These balances are included in the maturity analysis as follows:
–
Trading assets and liabilities (including trading derivatives but excluding reverse repos, repos and debt securities in issue) are included in the 
‘Due not more than 1 month’ time bucket because trading balances are typically held for short periods of time.
–
Financial assets and liabilities with no contractual maturity (such as equity securities) are included in the ‘Due over 5 years’ time bucket. 
Undated or perpetual instruments are classified based on the contractual notice period, which the counterparty of the instrument is entitled 
to give. Where there is no contractual notice period, undated or perpetual contracts are included in the ‘Due over 5 years’ time bucket.
–
Non-financial assets and liabilities with no contractual maturity are included in the ‘Due over 5 years’ time bucket.
–
Financial instruments included within assets and liabilities of disposal groups held for sale are classified on the basis of the contractual 
maturity of the underlying instruments and not on the basis of the disposal transaction.
–
Liabilities under insurance contracts included in ‘non-financial liabilities’ are irrespective of contractual maturity included in the ‘Due over 5 
years’ time bucket in the maturity table provided below. An analysis of the present value of expected future cash flows of insurance contract 
liabilities and contractual service margin is provided on page 373. Liabilities under investment contracts are classified in accordance with 
their contractual maturity. Undated investment contracts are included in the ‘Due over 5 years’ time bucket, although such contracts are 
subject to surrender and transfer options by the policyholders.
–
Loan and other credit-related commitments are classified on the basis of the earliest date they can be drawn down.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
417
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

HSBC
Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments
Due not
more 
than
1 month
Due over
1 month
but not
more 
than
3 months
Due over
3 months
but not
more 
than
6 months
Due over
6 months
but not
more 
than
9 months
Due over
9 months
but not
more 
than
1 year
Due over
1 year
but not
more 
than
2 years
Due over
2 years
but not
more 
than
5 years
Due over
5 years
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Financial assets
Cash and balances at central banks
 
267,674 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
267,674 
Hong Kong Government certificates of 
indebtedness
 
42,293 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
42,293 
Trading assets
 
311,277 
1,374 
679 
337 
774 
401 
— 
— 
314,842 
Financial assets designated and otherwise 
mandatorily measured at fair value through profit 
or loss
 
6,329 
1,497 
1,218 
810 
1,570 
4,010 
11,503 
88,832 
115,769 
Derivatives
 
264,689 
401 
709 
377 
164 
364 
524 
1,409 
268,637 
Loans and advances to banks
 
69,778 
16,300 
3,871 
4,264 
2,922 
2,276 
2,236 
392 
102,039 
Loans and advances to customers
 
135,250 
69,955 
53,557 
36,945 
38,985 
89,061 
176,645 
330,260 
930,658 
– personal
 
45,221 
10,236 
7,634 
6,705 
6,197 
19,683 
53,434 
295,588 
444,698 
– corporate and commercial
 
78,170 
52,618 
38,440 
22,858 
25,292 
54,832 
102,637 
29,102 
403,949 
– financial
 
11,859 
7,101 
7,483 
7,382 
7,496 
14,546 
20,574 
5,570 
82,011 
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
 
179,590 
36,552 
15,054 
3,715 
6,659 
7,400 
3,579 
— 
252,549 
Financial investments
 
35,780 
74,850 
50,650 
15,907 
20,465 
54,125 
143,870 
97,519 
493,166 
Assets held for sale1
 
2,711 
170 
215 
401 
711 
513 
2,465 
19,170 
26,356 
Accrued income and other financial assets
 
94,803 
6,831 
4,127 
648 
579 
498 
346 
1,504 
109,336 
Financial assets at 31 Dec 2024
 1,410,174 
207,930 
130,080 
63,404 
72,829 
158,648 
341,168 
539,086 2,923,319 
Non-financial assets
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
93,729 
93,729 
Total assets at 31 Dec 2024
 1,410,174 
207,930 
130,080 
63,404 
72,829 
158,648 
341,168 
632,815 3,017,048 
Off-balance sheet commitments received
Loan and other credit-related commitments
 
41,875 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
41,875 
Financial liabilities
Hong Kong currency notes in circulation
 
42,293 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
42,293 
Deposits by banks
 
54,714 
1,595 
2,227 
653 
3,924 
507 
9,919 
458 
73,997 
Customer accounts
 1,382,204 
168,423 
58,928 
19,062 
17,389 
6,482 
2,353 
114 1,654,955 
– personal
 
640,031 
111,341 
41,429 
13,429 
11,109 
3,983 
1,981 
— 
823,303 
– corporate and commercial
 
564,693 
45,047 
14,708 
3,991 
4,748 
1,968 
332 
106 
635,593 
– financial
 
177,480 
12,035 
2,791 
1,642 
1,532 
531 
40 
8 
196,059 
Repurchase agreements – non-trading
 
168,075 
10,340 
1,176 
450 
473 
171 
— 
195 
180,880 
Trading liabilities
 
58,069 
4,933 
2,873 
7 
100 
— 
— 
— 
65,982 
Financial liabilities designated at 
fair value
 
19,037 
8,732 
5,890 
4,765 
5,600 
17,013 
43,274 
34,416 
138,727 
– debt securities in issue: covered bonds
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– debt securities in issue: unsecured
 
8,431 
4,148 
3,557 
2,885 
4,362 
14,660 
38,259 
22,866 
99,168 
– subordinated liabilities and preferred 
securities
 
— 
— 
— 
1,011 
— 
886 
1,871 
5,548 
9,316 
– other
 
10,606 
4,584 
2,333 
869 
1,238 
1,467 
3,144 
6,002 
30,243 
Derivatives
 
262,928 
2 
6 
3 
1 
43 
192 
1,273 
264,448 
Debt securities in issue
 
5,761 
10,915 
10,330 
7,332 
7,239 
14,724 
22,311 
27,173 
105,785 
– covered bonds
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
1,253 
— 
1,253 
– otherwise secured
 
511 
47 
67 
64 
61 
664 
520 
2,236 
4,170 
– unsecured
 
5,250 
10,868 
10,263 
7,268 
7,178 
14,060 
20,538 
24,937 
100,362 
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale2
 
5,356 
223 
42 
2 
107 
— 
— 
1,448 
7,178 
Accruals and other financial liabilities
 
99,424 
11,827 
5,415 
1,013 
1,241 
902 
1,489 
738 
122,049 
Subordinated liabilities
 
— 
— 
1,719 
16 
— 
— 
861 
23,362 
25,958 
Total financial liabilities at 31 Dec 2024
 2,097,861 
216,990 
88,606 
33,303 
36,074 
39,842 
80,399 
89,177 2,682,252 
Non-financial liabilities
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
142,523 
142,523 
Total liabilities at 31 Dec 2024
 2,097,861 
216,990 
88,606 
33,303 
36,074 
39,842 
80,399 
231,700 2,824,775 
Off-balance sheet commitments given
Loan and other credit-related commitments
 
861,181 
74 
12 
85 
49 
6 
57 
114 
861,578 
– personal
 
253,522 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
253,522 
– corporate and commercial 
 
460,762 
74 
12 
85 
49 
6 
57 
114 
461,159 
– financial 
 
146,897 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
146,897 
Notes on the financial statements
418
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments (continued)
Due not
more 
than
1 month
Due over
1 month
but not
more 
than
3 months
Due over
3 months
but not
more 
than
6 months
Due over
6 months
but not
more than
9 months
Due over
9 months
but not
more than
1 year
Due over
1 year
but not
more than
2 years 
Due over
2 years
but not
more than
5 years 
Due over
5 years
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Financial assets
Cash and balances at central banks
 
285,868 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
285,868 
Hong Kong Government certificates of 
indebtedness 
 
42,024 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
42,024 
Trading assets 
 
284,865 
2,010 
637 
363 
555 
165 
564 
— 
289,159 
Financial assets designated and otherwise 
mandatorily measured at fair value through profit 
or loss
 
5,530 
697 
821 
753 
581 
4,839 
11,917 
85,505 
110,643 
Derivatives 
 
227,343 
138 
134 
71 
35 
383 
570 
1,040 
229,714 
Loans and advances to banks
 
76,524 
18,662 
6,487 
2,689 
3,281 
2,756 
2,328 
175 
112,902 
Loans and advances to customers
 
142,803 
66,425 
52,218 
40,135 
36,323 
94,206 
175,381 
331,044 
938,535 
– personal 
 
44,105 
9,558 
6,960 
6,422 
6,127 
19,606 
54,365 
297,512 
444,655 
– corporate and commercial
 
83,281 
50,268 
38,250 
24,685 
24,566 
61,612 
106,598 
30,592 
419,852 
– financial 
 
15,417 
6,599 
7,008 
9,028 
5,630 
12,988 
14,418 
2,940 
74,028 
Reverse repurchase agreements – non-trading
 
164,826 
43,893 
23,840 
6,708 
5,126 
6,113 
1,711 
— 
252,217 
Financial investments 
 
48,969 
69,816 
44,493 
16,348 
18,603 
46,124 
106,117 
92,293 
442,763 
Assets held for sale1
 
39,882 
2,929 
7,041 
4,176 
3,261 
17,085 
33,015 
7,943 
115,332 
Accrued income and other financial assets
 
114,480 
6,574 
4,404 
550 
698 
220 
764 
1,513 
129,203 
Financial assets at 31 Dec 2023
 1,433,114 
211,144 
140,075 
71,793 
68,463 
171,891 
332,367 
519,513 2,948,360 
Non-financial assets 
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
90,317 
90,317 
Total assets at 31 Dec 2023
 1,433,114 
211,144 
140,075 
71,793 
68,463 
171,891 
332,367 
609,830 3,038,677 
Off-balance sheet commitments received
Loan and other credit-related commitments
 
39,836 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
39,836 
Financial liabilities
Hong Kong currency notes in circulation 
 
42,024 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
42,024 
Deposits by banks
 
52,747 
2,758 
2,324 
381 
94 
1,458 
13,064 
337 
73,163 
Customer accounts
 1,343,858 
138,117 
78,611 
20,832 
17,724 
7,785 
4,616 
104 1,611,647 
– personal 
 
621,112 
84,909 
61,286 
14,794 
12,465 
5,507 
2,742 
2 
802,817 
– corporate and commercial
 
545,207 
43,562 
14,525 
4,605 
3,393 
2,165 
1,527 
92 
615,076 
– financial 
 
177,539 
9,646 
2,800 
1,433 
1,866 
113 
347 
10 
193,754 
Repurchase agreements – non-trading 
 
158,882 
10,311 
1,759 
300 
847 
1 
— 
— 
172,100 
Trading liabilities 
 
66,548 
6,302 
300 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
73,150 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 
 
22,080 
8,366 
7,823 
7,197 
6,239 
16,679 
39,497 
33,545 
141,426 
– debt securities in issue: covered bonds 
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
– debt securities in issue: unsecured 
 
10,383 
2,760 
5,748 
6,225 
5,390 
14,090 
34,757 
23,898 
103,251 
– subordinated liabilities and preferred 
securities
 
— 
1,995 
— 
— 
— 
1,471 
3,429 
4,581 
11,476 
– other 
 
11,697 
3,611 
2,075 
972 
849 
1,118 
1,311 
5,066 
26,699 
Derivatives 
 
233,134 
113 
25 
9 
47 
73 
1,223 
148 
234,772 
Debt securities in issue 
 
6,891 
6,664 
10,816 
6,896 
6,427 
6,317 
27,452 
22,454 
93,917 
– covered bonds 
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
1,273 
— 
1,273 
– otherwise secured 
 
447 
44 
62 
58 
55 
188 
861 
1,679 
3,394 
– unsecured 
 
6,444 
6,620 
10,754 
6,838 
6,372 
6,129 
25,318 
20,775 
89,250 
Liabilities of disposal groups held for sale2
 
69,868 
5,231 
5,479 
6,728 
6,541 
4,730 
7,918 
1,511 
108,006 
Accruals and other financial liabilities
 
111,559 
11,827 
6,007 
1,205 
1,414 
1,053 
1,491 
2,137 
136,693 
Subordinated liabilities 
 
— 
13 
— 
— 
— 
1,790 
897 
22,254 
24,954 
Total financial liabilities at 31 Dec 2023
 2,107,591 
189,702 
113,144 
43,548 
39,333 
39,886 
96,158 
82,490 2,711,852 
Non-financial liabilities 
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
134,215 
134,215 
Total liabilities at 31 Dec 2023
 2,107,591 
189,702 
113,144 
43,548 
39,333 
39,886 
96,158 
216,705 2,846,067 
Off-balance sheet commitments given
Loan and other credit-related commitments
 
895,140 
95 
126 
72 
171 
439 
807 
300 
897,150 
– personal
 
256,272 
21 
30 
46 
107 
279 
745 
192 
257,692 
– corporate and commercial
 
472,507 
74 
26 
26 
64 
160 
62 
108 
473,027 
– financial
 
166,361 
— 
70 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
166,431 
1 Unallocated impairment losses in relation to disposal groups of $0.03bn (2023: $2.0bn) and non-financial assets of $0.9bn (2023: $0.9bn) that are presented 
within assets held for sale on the balance sheet have been included within non-financial assets in the table above.
2 A total of $21.8bn (2023: $0.4bn) of non-financial liabilities that are presented within liabilities of disposal groups held for sale on the balance sheet have been 
included within non-financial liabilities in the table above.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
419
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

HSBC Holdings 
Maturity analysis of assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet commitments
Due not
more 
than
1 month
Due over
1 month
but not
more than
3 months
Due over
3 months
but not
more than
6 months
Due over
6 months
but not
more than
9 months
Due over
9 months
but not
more than
1 year
Due over
1 year
but not
more than
2 years 
Due over
2 years
but not
more than
5 years 
Due 
over
5 years
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Financial assets
Cash at bank and in hand:
– balances with HSBC undertakings
 
2,548 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 2,548 
Financial assets with HSBC undertakings 
designated and otherwise mandatorily 
measured at fair value
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
5,835 
31,547 23,904 61,286 
Derivatives 
 
2,339 
— 
24 
— 
— 
243 
162 
286 3,054 
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 
 
8,500 
— 
120 
— 
13 
1,640 
6,739 20,665 37,677 
Trading assets
 
709 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
709 
Financial investments
 
6,141 
4,187 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 10,328 
Accrued income and other financial assets
 
2,719 
856 
292 
203 
11 
— 
— 
— 4,081 
Total financial assets at 31 Dec 2024
 
22,956 
5,043 
436 
203 
24 
7,718 
38,448 44,855 
119,683 
Non-financial assets 
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 154,574 
154,574 
Total assets at 31 Dec 2024
 
22,956 
5,043 
436 
203 
24 
7,718 
38,448 199,429 
274,257 
Financial liabilities
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 
 
— 
231 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
231 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 
 
— 
— 
— 
1,012 
— 
3,641 
16,907 20,022 41,582 
– debt securities in issue 
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
2,755 
15,036 15,476 33,267 
– subordinated liabilities and preferred 
securities 
 
— 
— 
— 
1,012 
— 
886 
1,871 
4,546 8,315 
Derivatives 
 
1,502 
89 
144 
44 
45 
209 
794 
2,513 5,340 
Debt securities in issue 
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
14,897 
24,395 25,028 64,320 
Accruals and other financial liabilities
 
351 
1,713 
831 
129 
31 
— 
— 
20 3,075 
Subordinated liabilities 
 
— 
— 
1,541 
— 
— 
— 
836 21,171 23,548 
Total financial liabilities 31 Dec 2024
 
1,853 
2,033 
2,516 
1,185 
76 
18,747 
42,932 68,754 
138,096 
Non-financial liabilities 
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
22 
22 
Total liabilities at 31 Dec 2024
 
1,853 
2,033 
2,516 
1,185 
76 
18,747 
42,932 68,776 
138,118 
Financial assets
Cash at bank and in hand:
– balances with HSBC undertakings
 
7,029 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
7,029 
Financial assets with HSBC undertakings 
designated and otherwise mandatorily 
measured at fair value
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
3,815 
26,284 
29,780 
59,879 
Derivatives 
 
2,217 
— 
— 
— 
— 
18 
675 
434 
3,344 
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings 
 
— 
— 
120 
— 
— 
1,016 
6,783 
19,435 
27,354 
Financial investments
 
10,365 
6,017 
898 
750 
757 
771 
— 
— 
19,558 
Accrued income and other financial assets
 
3,511 
860 
254 
229 
5 
— 
— 
— 
4,859 
Total financial assets at 31 Dec 2023
 
23,122 
6,877 
1,272 
979 
762 
5,620 
33,742 
49,649 
122,023 
Non-financial assets 
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
163,146 
163,146 
Total assets at 31 Dec 2023
 
23,122 
6,877 
1,272 
979 
762 
5,620 
33,742 
212,795 
285,169 
Financial liabilities
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 
 
— 
168 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
168 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
5,287 
19,604 
18,747 
43,638 
– debt securities in issue
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
3,816 
16,175 
15,198 
35,189 
– subordinated liabilities and preferred 
securities
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
1,471 
3,429 
3,549 
8,449 
Derivatives 
 
2,452 
209 
7 
59 
75 
558 
1,318 
1,412 
6,090 
Debt securities in issue 
 
— 
— 
816 
2,158 
— 
4,920 
33,735 
23,610 
65,239 
Accruals and other financial liabilities
 
1,437 
1,599 
1,049 
127 
34 
— 
— 
23 
4,269 
Subordinated liabilities 
 
— 
1,987 
— 
— 
— 
1,600 
880 
19,972 
24,439 
Total financial liabilities at 31 Dec 2023
 
3,889 
3,963 
1,872 
2,344 
109 
12,365 
55,537 
63,764 
143,843 
Non-financial liabilities 
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
20 
20 
Total liabilities at 31 Dec 2023
 
3,889 
3,963 
1,872 
2,344 
109 
12,365 
55,537 
63,784 
143,863 
Notes on the financial statements
420
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Contractual maturity of financial liabilities
The following table shows, on an undiscounted basis, all cash flows relating to principal and future coupon payments (except for trading 
liabilities and derivatives not treated as hedging derivatives). For this reason, balances in the following table do not agree directly with those in 
our consolidated balance sheet. Undiscounted cash flows payable in relation to hedging derivative liabilities are classified according to their 
contractual maturities. Trading liabilities and derivatives not treated as hedging derivatives are included in the ‘Due not more than 1 month’ time 
bucket and not by contractual maturity.
In addition, loan and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees are generally not recognised on our balance sheet. The 
undiscounted cash flows potentially payable under loan and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees are classified on the 
basis of the earliest date they can be called.
Cash flows payable by HSBC under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities
Due not 
more
than 1 
month
Due over
1 month but
not more 
than
3 months
Due over
3 months but
not more than
1 year
Due over
1 year but 
not
more than
5 years
Due over
5 years
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Deposits by banks
 
54,819 
1,759 
7,381 
11,242 
511 
75,712 
Customer accounts
 
1,382,666 
171,917 
97,667 
10,089 
113 
1,662,452 
Repurchase agreements – non-trading
 
168,633 
10,425 
2,195 
188 
196 
181,637 
Trading liabilities
 
65,982 
— 
— 
— 
— 
65,982 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value
 
19,139 
9,042 
18,462 
70,587 
45,767 
162,997 
Derivatives
 
262,014 
531 
1,008 
2,034 
2,765 
268,352 
Debt securities in issue
 
5,780 
11,309 
27,103 
45,725 
32,129 
122,046 
Subordinated liabilities
 
39 
120 
2,959 
7,373 
35,512 
46,003 
Other financial liabilities1
 
138,319 
9,754 
5,421 
2,206 
608 
156,308 
 
2,097,391 
214,857 
162,196 
149,444 
117,601 
2,741,489 
Loan and other credit-related commitments
 
861,193 
78 
146 
63 
98 
861,578 
Financial guarantees2
 
16,998 
— 
— 
— 
— 
16,998 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
2,975,582 
214,935 
162,342 
149,507 
117,699 
3,620,065 
Proportion of cash flows payable in period
83%
6%
4%
4%
3%
Deposits by banks
 
52,938 
2,898 
3,304 
17,123 
362 
76,625 
Customer accounts
 
1,345,006 
141,348 
119,660 
13,423 
109 
1,619,546 
Repurchase agreements – non-trading
 
159,264 
10,457 
2,996 
1 
— 
172,718 
Trading liabilities
 
73,150 
— 
— 
— 
— 
73,150 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value
 
22,262 
9,156 
26,033 
63,960 
44,886 
166,297 
Derivatives
 
232,598 
609 
1,295 
2,445 
2,910 
239,857 
Debt securities in issue
 
6,837 
7,407 
24,117 
43,513 
27,119 
108,993 
Subordinated liabilities
 
39 
135 
1,465 
9,020 
34,920 
45,579 
Other financial liabilities1
 
149,904 
9,752 
5,943 
2,555 
2,109 
170,263 
 
2,041,998 
181,762 
184,813 
152,040 
112,415 
2,673,028 
Loan and other credit-related commitments
 
895,156 
95 
371 
1,437 
91 
897,150 
Financial guarantees2
 
16,966 
4 
39 
— 
— 
17,009 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
2,954,120 
181,861 
185,223 
153,477 
112,506 
3,587,187 
Proportion of cash flows payable in period
83%
5%
5%
4%
3%
1 Excludes financial liabilities of disposal groups.
2 Excludes performance guarantee contracts to which the impairment requirements in IFRS 9 are not applied.
HSBC Holdings 
HSBC Holdings’ primary sources of liquidity are dividends received from subsidiaries, interest on and repayment of intra-Group loans and 
securities, and interest earned on its own liquid funds. HSBC Holdings also raises funds in the debt capital markets to meet the Group’s 
minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities and maintain an appropriate liquidity buffer. HSBC Holdings uses this liquidity to 
meet its obligations, including interest and principal repayments on external debt liabilities, operating expenses and collateral on derivative 
transactions.
HSBC Holdings is also subject to contingent liquidity risk by virtue of credit-related commitments and guarantees and similar contracts issued 
relating to its subsidiaries. Such commitments and guarantees are only issued after due consideration of HSBC Holdings’ ability to finance the 
commitments and guarantees and the likelihood of the need arising.
HSBC Holdings actively manages the cash flows from its subsidiaries to optimise the amount of cash held at the holding company level. During 
2024, consistent with the Group’s capital plan, the Group’s material subsidiaries did not experience any significant restrictions on paying 
dividends or repaying loans and advances. Also, there are no foreseen restrictions envisaged with regard to planned dividends or payments 
from material subsidiaries. However, the ability of subsidiaries to pay dividends or advance monies to HSBC Holdings depends on, among other 
things, their respective local regulatory capital and banking requirements, exchange controls, statutory reserves, and financial and operating 
performance.
HSBC Holdings currently has sufficient liquidity to meet its present and forecast requirements.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
421
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

The following table shows, on an undiscounted basis, all cash flows relating to principal and future coupon payments (except for trading 
liabilities and derivatives not treated as hedging derivatives). For this reason, balances in the following table do not agree directly with those in 
HSBC Holdings balance sheet. Undiscounted cash flows payable in relation to hedging derivative liabilities are classified according to their 
contractual maturities. Trading liabilities and derivatives not treated as hedging derivatives are included in the ‘Due not more than 1 month’ time 
bucket and not by contractual maturity.
In addition, loan and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees are generally not recognised on our balance sheet. The 
undiscounted cash flows potentially payable under loan and other credit-related commitments and financial guarantees are classified on the 
basis of the earliest date they can be called.
Cash flows payable by HSBC Holdings under financial liabilities by remaining contractual maturities
Due not 
more
than 1 
month
Due over 1
month but 
not
more than 3
months
Due over 3
months but
not more 
than
1 year
Due over 1
year but not
more than 5
years
Due over
5 years
Total
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 
 
— 
231 
— 
— 
— 
231 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value
 
2 
133 
2,254 
26,335 
26,788 
55,512 
Derivatives 
 
669 
202 
1,344 
2,591 
1,658 
6,464 
Debt securities in issue 
 
— 
254 
1,697 
47,771 
29,706 
79,428 
Subordinated liabilities 
 
— 
105 
2,627 
6,794 
31,773 
41,299 
Other financial liabilities 
 
351 
1,735 
991 
— 
20 
3,097 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
1,022 
2,660 
8,913 
83,491 
89,945 
186,031 
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 
 
— 
168 
— 
— 
— 
168 
Financial liabilities designated at fair value 
 
23 
405 
1,437 
31,050 
25,610 
58,525 
Derivatives 
 
1,244 
556 
1,651 
2,227 
726 
6,404 
Debt securities in issue 
 
— 
680 
4,787 
46,909 
27,745 
80,121 
Subordinated liabilities 
 
46 
2,163 
1,360 
8,239 
30,862 
42,670 
Other financial liabilities 
 
1,436 
1,620 
1,210 
— 
23 
4,289 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
2,749 
5,592 
10,445 
88,425 
84,966 
192,177 
31 Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities
In the offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities, the net amount is reported in the balance sheet when the offset criteria are met. This 
is achieved when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is either an intention to settle on a net basis, or 
realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
In the following table, the ‘Amounts not set off in the balance sheet’ include transactions where:
–
the counterparty has an offsetting exposure with HSBC and a master netting or similar arrangement is in place with a right to set off only in 
the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy, or the offset criteria are otherwise not satisfied; and 
–
cash and non-cash collateral (debt securities and equities) has been received/pledged for derivatives and reverse repurchase/repurchase, 
stock borrowing/lending and similar agreements to cover net exposure in the event of a default or other predetermined events.
The effect of over-collateralisation is excluded. 
‘Amounts not subject to enforceable netting agreements’ include contracts executed in jurisdictions where the rights of offset may not be 
upheld under the local bankruptcy laws, and transactions where a legal opinion evidencing enforceability of the right of offset may not have 
been sought, or may have been unable to obtain.
For risk management purposes, the net amounts of loans and advances to customers are subject to limits, which are monitored and the 
relevant customer agreements are subject to review and updated, as necessary, to ensure the legal right to set off remains appropriate.
Notes on the financial statements
422
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Offsetting of financial assets and financial liabilities
Amounts subject to enforceable netting arrangements
Amounts not
subject to
enforceable
netting
arrangements1
Total
Amounts not set off in the 
balance sheet
Gross
amounts
Amounts
offset
Net
amounts 
in the 
balance
sheet
Financial 
instruments, 
including 
non-cash 
collateral
Cash
collateral
Net
amount
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Financial assets
Derivatives (Note 15)2
 
372,699 
(112,746) 
259,953 
(230,133) 
(22,730) 
7,090 
8,684 
268,637 
Reverse repos, stock borrowing and 
similar agreements classified as:3
– trading assets
 
25,077 
(637) 
24,440 
(24,428) 
(10) 
2 
757 
25,197 
– non-trading assets 
 
386,124 
(154,133) 
231,991 
(230,584) 
(332) 
1,075 
20,602 
252,593 
Loans and advances to customers4
 
34,582 
(16,540) 
18,042 
(15,313) 
(75) 
2,654 
4 
18,046 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
818,482 
(284,056) 
534,426 
(500,458) 
(23,147) 
10,821 
30,047 
564,473 
Derivatives (Note 15)2
 
341,473 
(116,486) 
224,987 
(198,743) 
(22,926) 
3,318 
4,727 
229,714 
Reverse repos, stock borrowing and 
similar agreements classified as:3
– trading assets 
 
29,152 
(602) 
28,550 
(28,513) 
(34) 
3 
2,633 
31,183 
– non-trading assets
 
365,922 
(135,210) 
230,712 
(230,240) 
(80) 
392 
21,653 
252,365 
Loans and advances to customers4
 
34,173 
(15,792) 
18,381 
(15,613) 
(93) 
2,675 
2 
18,383 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
770,720 
(268,090) 
502,630 
(473,109) 
(23,133) 
6,388 
29,015 
531,645 
Financial liabilities
Derivatives (Note 15)2
 
369,287 
(112,746) 
256,541 
(221,232) 
(30,334) 
4,975 
7,907 
264,448 
Repos, stock lending and similar 
agreements classified as:3
– trading liabilities
 
18,482 
(157) 
18,325 
(18,326) 
— 
(1) 
6 
18,331 
– non-trading liabilities 
 
287,648 
(154,613) 
133,035 
(131,719) 
(164) 
1,152 
47,845 
180,880 
Customer accounts5
 
41,409 
(16,540) 
24,869 
(15,313) 
(75) 
9,481 
17 
24,886 
At 31 Dec 2024
 
716,826 
(284,056) 
432,770 
(386,590) 
(30,573) 
15,607 
55,775 
488,545 
Derivatives (Note 15)2
 
344,799 
(116,486) 
228,313 
(198,640) 
(23,748) 
5,925 
6,459 
234,772 
Repos, stock lending and similar 
agreements classified as:3
– trading liabilities 
 
15,686 
(172) 
15,514 
(15,453) 
— 
61 
6 
15,520 
– non-trading liabilities
 
270,493 
(135,640) 
134,853 
(134,095) 
(669) 
89 
37,247 
172,100 
Customer accounts5
 
42,522 
(15,792) 
26,730 
(15,613) 
(93) 
11,024 
13 
26,743 
At 31 Dec 2023
 
673,500 
(268,090) 
405,410 
(363,801) 
(24,510) 
17,099 
43,725 
449,135 
1 These exposures continue to be secured by financial collateral, but we may not have sought or been able to obtain a legal opinion evidencing enforceability of 
the right of offset. 
2 At 31 December 2024, the amount of cash margin received that had been offset against the gross derivatives assets was $5,303m (2023: $5,105m). The 
amount of cash margin paid that had been offset against the gross derivatives liabilities was $5,614m (2023: $7,142m).
3 For the amount of repos, reverse repos, stock lending, stock borrowing and similar agreements recognised on the balance sheet within ‘Trading assets’ of 
$25,197m (2023: $31,183m) and ‘Trading liabilities’ of $18,331m (2023: $15,520m), see the ‘Funding sources and uses’ table on page 209.
4 At 31 December 2024, the total amount of ‘Loans and advances to customers’ was $930,658m (2023: $938,535m), of which $18,042m (2023: $18,381m) was 
subject to offsetting.
5 At 31 December 2024, the total amount of ‘Customer accounts’ was $1,654,955m (2023: $1,611,647m), of which $24,869m (2023: $26,730m) was subject to 
offsetting.
32 Called up share capital and other equity instruments
 
Called up share capital and share premium
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of $0.50 each, issued and fully paid
2024
2023
Number
$m
Number
$m
At 1 Jan
 
19,262,728,193 
9,631 
20,293,607,410 
10,147 
Shares issued under HSBC employee share plans
 
10,283,430 
5 
10,778,479 
5 
Shares issued in lieu of dividends
 
— 
— 
— 
— 
Less: shares repurchased and cancelled
 
1,326,061,041 
663 
716,384,289 
358 
Less: treasury shares cancelled
 
— 
— 
325,273,407 
163 
At 31 Dec1
 
17,946,950,582 
8,973 
19,262,728,193 
9,631 
1 All HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in issue confer identical rights, including in respect of capital, dividends and voting.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
423
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

HSBC Holdings share premium
2024
2023
$m
$m
At 31 Dec
 
14,810 
14,738 
 
Total called up share capital and share premium
2024
2023
$m
$m
At 31 Dec
 
23,783 
24,369 
HSBC Holdings non-cumulative preference share of £0.01 
The one non-cumulative sterling preference share of £0.01 (‘sterling preference share’) has been in issue since 29 December 2010 and is held 
by a subsidiary of HSBC Holdings. Dividends are paid quarterly at the sole and absolute discretion of the Board. The sterling preference share 
carries no rights of conversion into ordinary shares of HSBC Holdings and no right to attend or vote at shareholder meetings of HSBC Holdings. 
These securities can be redeemed by HSBC Holdings at any time, subject to prior approval by the PRA.
Other equity instruments
HSBC Holdings has included two types of additional tier 1 capital securities in its tier 1 capital, including the contingent convertible securities 
described below. These are accounted for as equity because HSBC does not have an obligation to transfer cash or a variable number of its own 
ordinary shares to holders under any circumstances outside its control. See Note 29 for additional tier 1 securities accounted for as liabilities.
Additional tier 1 capital – contingent convertible securities
HSBC Holdings continues to issue contingent convertible securities that are included in its capital base as fully CRR II-compliant additional tier 1 
capital securities on an end point basis. These securities are marketed principally and subsequently allotted to corporate investors and fund 
managers. The net proceeds of the issuances are typically used for HSBC Holdings’ general corporate purposes and to further strengthen its 
capital base to meet requirements under CRR II. These securities bear a fixed rate of interest until their initial call dates. After the initial call 
dates, if they are not redeemed, the securities will bear interest at rates fixed periodically in advance for five-year periods based on credit 
spreads, fixed at issuance, above prevailing market rates. Interest on the contingent convertible securities will be due and payable only at the 
sole discretion of HSBC Holdings, and HSBC Holdings has sole and absolute discretion at all times to cancel for any reason (in whole or part) 
any interest payment that would otherwise be payable on any payment date. Distributions will not be paid if they are prohibited under UK 
banking regulations or if the Group has insufficient reserves or fails to meet the solvency conditions defined in the securities’ terms.
The contingent convertible securities are undated and are repayable at the option of HSBC Holdings in whole typically at the initial call date or 
on any fifth anniversary after this date. In addition, the securities are repayable at the option of HSBC in whole for certain regulatory or tax 
reasons. Any repayments require the prior consent of the PRA. These securities rank pari passu with HSBC Holdings’ sterling preference 
shares and therefore rank ahead of ordinary shares. The contingent convertible securities will be converted into fully paid ordinary shares of 
HSBC Holdings at a predetermined price, should HSBC’s consolidated non-transitional CET1 ratio fall below 7.0%. Therefore, in accordance 
with the terms of the securities, if the non-transitional CET1 ratio breaches the 7.0% trigger, the securities will convert into ordinary shares at 
fixed contractual conversion prices in the issuance currencies of the relevant securities, subject to anti-dilution adjustments.
HSBC’s additional tier 1 capital – contingent convertible securities in issue which are accounted for in equity
Original nominal 
amount (LCY)
First call
date
2024
2023
$m
$m
$2,250m
6.375% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities1
Sept 2024
 
— 
2,250 
$2,450m
6.375% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities
Mar 2025
 
2,450 
2,450 
$3,000m
6.000% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities
May 2027
 
3,000 
3,000 
$1,800m
6.500% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities
Mar 2028
 
1,800 
1,800 
$1,500m
4.600% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities2
Dec 2030
 
1,500 
1,500 
$1,000m
4.000% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities3
Mar 2026
 
1,000 
1,000 
$1,000m
4.700% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities4
Mar 2031
 
1,000 
1,000 
$2,000m
8.000% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities5
Mar 2028
 
1,980 
1,980 
€1,250m
4.750% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities
Jul 2029
 
1,422 
1,422 
£1,000m
5.875% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities
Sept 2026
 
1,301 
1,301 
$1,350m
6.875% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities6
Sept 2029
 
1,337 
— 
$1,150m
6.950% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities7
Mar 2034
 
1,138 
— 
SGD1,500m
5.250% Perpetual Subordinated Contingent Convertible Securities8
Jun 2029
 
1,096 
— 
At 31 Dec
 
19,024 
17,703 
1 This security was called by HSBC Holdings on 23 July 2024 and redeemed and cancelled on 17 September 2024.
2 This security was issued by HSBC Holdings on 17 December 2020. The first call period commences six months prior to reset date of 17 June 2031.
3 This security was issued by HSBC Holdings on 9 March 2021. The first call period commences six months prior to reset date of 9 September 2026.
4 This security was issued by HSBC Holdings on 9 March 2021. The first call period commences six months prior to reset date of 9 September 2031.
5 This security was issued by HSBC Holdings on 7 March 2023. The first call period commences six months prior to reset date of 7 September 2028. This security 
has been accounted for net of directly attributable transaction costs.
6 This security was issued by HSBC Holdings on 11 September 2024. The first call period commences six months prior to reset date of 11 March 2030. This 
security has been accounted for net of directly attributable transaction costs.
7 This security was issued by HSBC Holdings on 11 September 2024. The first call period commences six months prior to reset date of 11 September 2034. This 
security has been accounted for net of directly attributable transaction costs.
8 This security was issued by HSBC Holdings on 14 June 2024. The first call period commences six months prior to reset date of 14 December 2039.
Notes on the financial statements
424
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Shares under option
For details of the options outstanding to subscribe for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option 
Plan (UK), see Note 5.
Aggregate options outstanding under these plans
31 Dec 2024
31 Dec 2023
Number of
HSBC Holdings
ordinary shares
Usual period of 
exercise
Exercise price 
Number of
HSBC Holdings
ordinary shares
Usual period of 
exercise
Exercise price
 
75,335,399 
2023 to 2030
£2.6270–£5.4490 
83,993,678 
2022 to 2029
£2.6270–5.4490
 
Maximum obligation to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares
At 31 December 2024, the maximum obligation to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under all of the above option arrangements and the 
HSBC International Employee Share Purchase Plan, together with long-term incentive awards and deferred share awards granted under the 
HSBC Share Plan 2011, was 209,683,768 (2023: 208,539,316). The total number of shares at 31 December 2024 held by employee benefit 
trusts that may be used to satisfy such obligations to deliver HSBC Holdings ordinary shares was 9,305,925 (2023: 20,902,218).
33 Contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees
 
HSBC
HSBC Holdings1
2024
2023
2024
2023
$m
$m
$m
$m
Guarantees and other contingent liabilities:
– financial guarantees
 
16,998 
17,009 
— 
— 
– performance and other guarantees
 
92,723 
94,277 
7,327 
7,723 
– other contingent liabilities
 
298 
636 
— 
— 
At 31 Dec
 
110,019 
111,922 
7,327 
7,723
Commitments:2
– documentary credits and short-term trade-related transactions 
 
7,096 
7,818 
— 
— 
– forward asset purchases and forward deposits placed
 
61,017 
78,535 
— 
— 
– standby facilities, credit lines and other commitments to lend
 
793,465 
810,797 
— 
— 
At 31 Dec
 
861,578 
897,150 
— 
— 
1 Guarantees by HSBC Holdings are in favour of other Group entities. These include contracts that provide protection against credit risk on a specified exposure 
but do not meet the definition of financial guarantees.
2 Includes $619,367m of commitments at 31 December 2024 (31 December 2023: $661,015m), to which the impairment requirements in IFRS 9 are applied 
where HSBC has become party to an irrevocable commitment.
The preceding table discloses the nominal principal amounts of off-balance sheet liabilities and commitments for the Group, which represent 
the maximum amounts at risk should the contracts be fully drawn upon and the clients default. As a significant portion of guarantees and 
commitments are expected to expire without being drawn upon, the total of the nominal principal amounts is not indicative of future liquidity 
requirements. The expected credit loss provision relating to guarantees and commitments under IFRS 9 is disclosed in Note 28.
The majority of the guarantees have a term of less than one year, while guarantees with terms of more than one year are subject to HSBC’s 
annual credit review process.
Contingent liabilities arising from legal proceedings, regulatory and other matters against Group companies are excluded from this note but are 
disclosed in Notes 28 and 35.
Financial Services Compensation Scheme
The Financial Services Compensation Scheme (‘FSCS’) provides compensation, up to certain limits, to eligible customers of financial services 
firms that are unable, or likely to be unable, to pay claims against them. The FSCS may impose a further levy on the Group to the extent the 
industry levies imposed to date are not sufficient to cover the compensation due to customers in any future possible collapse. The ultimate 
FSCS levy to the industry as a result of a collapse cannot be estimated reliably. It is dependent on various uncertain factors including the 
potential recovery of assets by the FSCS, changes in the level of protected products (including deposits and investments) and the population of 
FSCS members at the time.
Associates
HSBC’s share of associates’ contingent liabilities, contractual commitments and guarantees amounted to $74.5bn at 31 December 2024 (2023: 
$69.9bn). No matters arose where HSBC was severally liable.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
425
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

34 Finance lease receivables 
HSBC leases a variety of assets to third parties under finance leases, including transport assets (such as aircraft), property and general plant 
and machinery. At the end of lease terms, assets may be sold to third parties or leased for further terms. Rentals are calculated to recover the 
cost of assets less their residual value, and earn finance income. 
The table below excludes finance lease receivables reclassified on the balance sheet to ‘Assets held for sale’ in accordance with IFRS 5. Net 
investment in finance leases of $1,595m was reclassified to ‘Assets held for sale’ in 2023 as a result of the sale of our banking business in 
Canada. There was no net investment in finance leases classified as held-for-sale at 31 December 2024.
2024
2023
Total future
minimum
payments
Unearned
finance
income
Present
value
Total future
minimum
payments
Unearned
finance
income
Present
value
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
$m
Lease receivables:
No later than one year 
 
2,331 
(295) 
2,036 
2,355 
(308) 
2,047 
One to two years
 
1,787 
(226) 
1,561 
1,954 
(249) 
1,705 
Two to three years
 
1,290 
(171) 
1,119 
1,380 
(189) 
1,191 
Three to four years
 
839 
(134) 
705 
930 
(153) 
777 
Four to five years
 
766 
(147) 
619 
593 
(132) 
461 
Later than one year and no later than five years 
 
4,682 
(678) 
4,004 
4,857 
(723) 
4,134 
Later than five years 
 
3,518 
(639) 
2,879 
4,116 
(838) 
3,278 
At 31 Dec
 
10,531 
(1,612) 
8,919 
11,328 
(1,869) 
9,459 
 
35 Legal proceedings and regulatory matters
HSBC is party to legal proceedings and regulatory matters in a number of jurisdictions arising out of its normal business operations. Apart from 
the matters described below, HSBC considers that none of these matters are material. The recognition of provisions is determined in 
accordance with the accounting policies set out in Note 1. While the outcomes of legal proceedings and regulatory matters are inherently 
uncertain, management believes that, based on the information available to it, appropriate provisions have been made in respect of these 
matters as at 31 December 2024 (see Note 28). Where an individual provision is material, the fact that a provision has been made is stated and 
quantified, except to the extent that doing so would be seriously prejudicial. Any provision recognised does not constitute an admission of 
wrongdoing or legal liability. It is not practicable to provide an aggregate estimate of potential liability for our legal proceedings and regulatory 
matters as a class of contingent liabilities.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC
Various non-US HSBC companies provided custodial, administration and similar services to a number of funds incorporated outside the US 
whose assets were invested with Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC (‘Madoff Securities’). Based on information provided by Madoff 
Securities as at 30 November 2008, the purported aggregate value of these funds was $8.4bn, including fictitious profits reported by Madoff. 
Based on information available to HSBC, the funds’ actual transfers to Madoff Securities minus their actual withdrawals from Madoff Securities 
during the time HSBC serviced the funds are estimated to have totalled approximately $4bn. Various HSBC companies have been named as 
defendants in lawsuits arising out of Madoff Securities’ fraud.
Trustee litigation: The Madoff Securities trustee (the ‘Trustee’) has brought lawsuits in the US against various HSBC companies and others 
seeking recovery of alleged transfers from Madoff Securities to the HSBC companies in the amount of $543m (plus interest), and these 
lawsuits remain pending in the US Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York.
The Trustee has filed a claim against various HSBC companies in the High Court of England and Wales seeking recovery of alleged transfers 
from Madoff Securities to the HSBC companies. The claim has not yet been served and the amount claimed has not been specified.
Fairfield Funds litigation: Fairfield Sentry Limited, Fairfield Sigma Limited and Fairfield Lambda Limited (together, the ‘Fairfield Funds’) (in 
liquidation) have brought lawsuits in the US against various HSBC companies and others seeking recovery of alleged transfers from the Fairfield 
Funds to the HSBC companies (that acted as nominees for clients) in the amount of $382m (plus interest). Fairfield Funds’ claims against most 
of the HSBC companies have been dismissed, but remain pending on appeal before the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. Fairfield 
Funds’ claims against HSBC Private Bank (Suisse) SA (‘PBRS’) and HSBC Securities Services Luxembourg (‘HSSL’) have not been dismissed 
and are ongoing before the US Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. PBRS and HSSL have appealed the decision not to 
dismiss them and these appeals are pending before the US Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.
Herald Fund SPC (‘Herald’) litigation: HSSL and HSBC Bank plc are defending an action brought by Herald (in liquidation) before the 
Luxembourg District Court seeking restitution of securities and cash in the amount of $2.5bn (plus interest), or damages in the amount of 
$5.6bn (plus interest). In 2013, the Luxembourg District Court dismissed Herald’s securities restitution claim and stayed the cash restitution 
and damages claims. In December 2024, the Luxembourg Court of Appeal reversed the Luxembourg District Court’s dismissal and determined 
that Herald’s claims for restitution of securities and cash were founded in principle. HSSL has appealed this decision. Herald’s claim against 
HSBC Bank plc is pending.
Alpha Prime Fund Limited (‘Alpha Prime’) litigation: Various HSBC companies are defending a number of actions brought by Alpha Prime in 
the Luxembourg District Court seeking damages for alleged breach of contract and negligence in the amount of $1.16bn (plus interest). These 
matters are currently pending before the Luxembourg District Court.
In November 2024, Alpha Prime served various HSBC companies with a lawsuit filed in the Bermuda Supreme Court seeking damages for 
unspecified amounts for alleged breach of contract and negligence. This claim is currently stayed.
Notes on the financial statements
426
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Senator Fund SPC (‘Senator’) litigation: HSSL and the Luxembourg branch of HSBC Bank plc are defending a number of actions brought by 
Senator before the Luxembourg District Court seeking restitution of securities in the amount of $625m (plus interest), or damages in the 
amount of $188m (plus interest). These matters are currently pending before the Luxembourg District Court.
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of these matters, including the timing or 
any possible impact on HSBC, which could be significant.
US Anti-Terrorism Act litigation
Since November 2014, a number of lawsuits have been filed in federal courts in the US against various HSBC companies and others on behalf 
of plaintiffs who are, or are related to, alleged victims of terrorist attacks in the Middle East. In each case, it is alleged that the defendants aided 
and abetted the unlawful conduct of various sanctioned parties in violation of the US Anti-Terrorism Act, or provided banking services to 
customers alleged to have connections to terrorism financing. Seven actions, which seek damages for unspecified amounts, remain pending 
and HSBC’s motions to dismiss have been granted in three of these cases. These dismissals are subject to appeals and/or the plaintiffs repleading their claims. The four other actions are at an early stage.
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of these matters, including the timing or 
any possible impact on HSBC, which could be significant.
Interbank offered rates investigation and litigation
Euro interest rate derivatives: In December 2016, the European Commission (‘EC’) issued a decision finding that HSBC, among other banks, 
engaged in anti-competitive practices in connection with the pricing of euro interest rate derivatives, and the EC imposed a fine on HSBC based 
on a one-month infringement in 2007. The fine was annulled in 2019 and a lower fine was imposed in 2021, which has been paid. In January 
2023, the European Court of Justice dismissed an appeal by HSBC and upheld the EC’s findings on HSBC’s liability. In November 2024, the 
General Court of the European Union rejected a separate appeal by HSBC concerning the amount of the fine. This matter is now closed.
US dollar Libor: Beginning in 2011, HSBC and other panel banks have been named as defendants in a number of individual and putative class 
action lawsuits filed in federal and state courts in the US with respect to the setting of US dollar Libor. The complaints assert claims under 
various US federal and state laws, including antitrust and racketeering laws and the Commodity Exchange Act (‘US CEA’). HSBC has concluded 
class settlements with five groups of plaintiffs, and several class action lawsuits brought by other groups of plaintiffs have been voluntarily 
dismissed. Two individual US dollar Libor-related actions seeking damages from HSBC for unspecified amounts remain pending.
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of the pending matters, including the 
timing or any possible impact on HSBC, which could be significant.
Foreign exchange-related investigations and litigation 
In December 2016, Brazil’s Administrative Council of Economic Defense initiated an investigation into the onshore foreign exchange market 
and identified a number of banks, including HSBC, as subjects of its investigation, which remains ongoing. Lawsuits alleging foreign exchangerelated misconduct remain pending against HSBC and other banks in courts in Brazil.
Since 2017, HSBC Bank plc, among other financial institutions, has been defending a complaint filed by the Competition Commission of South 
Africa before the South African Competition Tribunal for alleged anti-competitive behaviour in the South African foreign exchange market. In 
2020, a revised complaint was filed which also named HSBC Bank USA N.A. (‘HSBC Bank USA’) as a defendant. In January 2024, the South 
African Competition Appeal Court dismissed HSBC Bank USA from the revised complaint but denied HSBC Bank plc’s application to dismiss. 
Both the Competition Commission and HSBC Bank plc have appealed to the Constitutional Court of South Africa.
HSBC Bank plc and HSBC Holdings have reached a settlement with plaintiffs in Israel to resolve a class action filed in the local courts alleging 
foreign exchange-related misconduct. The settlement remains subject to court approval. 
In February 2024, HSBC Bank plc and HSBC Holdings were joined to an existing claim brought in the UK Competition Appeals Tribunal against 
various other banks alleging historical anti-competitive behaviour in the foreign exchange market and seeking approximately £3bn in damages 
from all the defendants. This matter is at an early stage. 
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of these matters, including the timing or 
any possible impact on HSBC, which could be significant.
Precious metals fix-related litigation
US litigation: HSBC and other members of The London Silver Market Fixing Limited are defending a class action pending in the US District 
Court for the Southern District of New York alleging that, from January 2007 to December 2013, the defendants conspired to manipulate the 
price of silver and silver derivatives for their collective benefit in violation of US antitrust laws, the US CEA and New York state law. In May 
2023, this action, which seeks damages for unspecified amounts, was dismissed but remains pending on appeal.
HSBC and other members of The London Platinum and Palladium Fixing Company Limited have been defending a class action in the US District 
Court for the Southern District of New York alleging that, from January 2008 to November 2014, the defendants conspired to manipulate the 
price of platinum group metals and related financial products for their collective benefit in violation of US antitrust laws and the US CEA. In 
January 2025, the court approved a settlement reached with the plaintiffs to resolve this action. This matter is now closed.
Canada litigation: HSBC and other financial institutions are defending putative class actions filed in the Ontario and Quebec Superior Courts of 
Justice alleging that the defendants conspired to manipulate the price of silver, gold and related derivatives in violation of the Canadian 
Competition Act and common law. These actions each seek CA$1bn in damages plus CA$250m in punitive damages. Two of the actions are 
proceeding and the others have been stayed.
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of the pending matters, including the 
timing or any possible impact on HSBC, which could be significant.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
427
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Tax-related investigations 
Since 2023, the French National Financial Prosecutor has been investigating a number of banks, including HSBC Continental Europe and the 
Paris branch of HSBC Bank plc, in connection with alleged tax fraud related to the dividend withholding tax treatment of certain trading 
activities. HSBC Bank plc and the German branch of HSBC Continental Europe also continue to cooperate with investigations by the German 
public prosecutor into numerous financial institutions and their employees, in connection with the dividend withholding tax treatment of certain 
trading activities.
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of these matters, including the timing or 
any possible impact on HSBC, which could be significant.
Gilts trading investigation and litigation
Since 2018, the UK Competition and Markets Authority has been investigating HSBC and four other banks for suspected anti-competitive 
conduct in relation to the historical trading of gilts and related derivatives. This matter is nearing conclusion. The impact on HSBC is not 
expected to be significant. 
In June 2023, HSBC Bank plc and HSBC Securities (USA) Inc., among other banks, were named as defendants in a putative class action filed in 
the US District Court for the Southern District of New York by plaintiffs alleging anti-competitive conduct in the gilts market and seeking 
damages for unspecified amounts. Certain of the defendants, including HSBC Bank plc and HSBC Securities (USA) Inc., have reached a 
settlement with the plaintiffs to resolve this matter. The settlement remains subject to court approval. Based on the facts currently known, it is 
not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of this matter, including the timing or any possible impact on HSBC, which could 
be significant.
Korean short selling indictment
In March 2024, the Korean Prosecutors’ Office issued a criminal indictment against The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited 
(‘HBAP’) and three current and former employees for breaching short selling rules under the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets 
Act in connection with trades carried out between August 2021 and December 2021. In February 2025, the Korean court acquitted HBAP of all 
charges. The Korean Prosecutors’ Office has the right to appeal this decision. Proceedings against the individual defendants have been 
suspended.
First Citizens litigation
In May 2023, First-Citizens Bank & Trust Company (‘First Citizens’) brought a lawsuit in the US District Court for the Northern District of 
California against various HSBC companies and seven US-based HSBC employees who had previously worked for Silicon Valley Bank (‘SVB’). 
The lawsuit seeks $1bn in damages and alleges, among other things, that the various HSBC companies conspired with the individual 
defendants to solicit employees from First Citizens and that the individual defendants took confidential information belonging to SVB and/or 
First Citizens. In July 2024, the court dismissed several of First Citizens’ claims and also dismissed certain defendants for lack of jurisdiction, 
but allowed limited discovery into whether some of these defendants may be subject to jurisdiction. The remaining claims are proceeding 
against certain defendants.
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of this matter, including the timing or 
any possible impact on HSBC, which could be significant.
US mortgage securitisation litigation
Beginning in 2014, a number of lawsuits were filed in various state and federal courts in the US against HSBC Bank USA, as a trustee of more 
than 280 mortgage securitisation trusts, seeking unspecified damages for losses in collateral value allegedly sustained by the trusts. Nearly all 
of these lawsuits have either been settled or dismissed; one action remains pending in a New York state court. 
HSBC Bank USA and certain of its affiliates continue to defend a mortgage loan repurchase action seeking unspecified damages and specific 
performance brought by the trustee of a mortgage securitisation trust in New York state court. 
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of these matters, including the timing or 
any possible impact on HSBC, which could be significant.
Mexican government bond litigation
HSBC Mexico S.A. and other banks are named as defendants in a consolidated putative class action pending in the US District Court for the 
Southern District of New York alleging anti-competitive conduct in the Mexican government bond market between 2010 and 2014 and seeking 
unspecified damages. In January 2025, the court denied the defendants’ motion to dismiss the plaintiffs’ third amended complaint, and this 
action is proceeding.
Based on the facts currently known, it is not practicable at this time for HSBC to predict the resolution of this matter, including the timing or 
any possible impact on HSBC, which could be significant.
Other regulatory investigations, reviews and litigation
HSBC Holdings and/or certain of its affiliates are also subject to a number of other enquiries and examinations, requests for information, 
investigations and reviews by various tax authorities, regulators, competition and law enforcement authorities, as well as legal proceedings 
including litigation, arbitration and other contentious proceedings, in connection with various matters arising out of their businesses and 
operations.
At the present time, HSBC does not expect the ultimate resolution of any of these matters to be material to the Group’s financial position; 
however, given the uncertainties involved in legal proceedings and regulatory matters, there can be no assurance regarding the eventual 
outcome of a particular matter or matters.
Notes on the financial statements
428
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

36 Related party transactions
Related parties of the Group and HSBC Holdings include subsidiaries, associates, joint ventures, post-employment benefit plans for HSBC 
employees, Key Management Personnel (‘KMP’) as defined by IAS 24, close family members of KMP and entities that are controlled or jointly 
controlled by KMP or their close family members. KMP are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing 
and controlling the activities of HSBC Holdings. These individuals also constitute ‘senior management’ for the purposes of the Hong Kong 
Listing Rules. In applying IAS 24, it was determined that for this financial reporting period KMP included Directors, former Directors and senior 
management listed on pages 237 to 243 except for the roles of Group Chief Legal Officer, Group Head of Internal Audit, Group Chief Human 
Resources Officer, Group Chief Sustainability Officer, Group Chief Communications and Brand Officer, and Group Chief People & Governance 
Officer who do not meet the criteria for KMP as provided for in the standard.
Particulars of transactions with related parties are tabulated below. The disclosure of the year-end balance and the highest amounts outstanding during 
the year is considered to be the most meaningful information to represent the amount of the transactions and outstanding balances during the year.
Key Management Personnel
Details of Directors’ remuneration and interests in shares are disclosed in the ‘Directors’ remuneration report’ on pages 279 to 317. 
IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ requires the following additional information for key management compensation.
Compensation of Key Management Personnel
2024
2023
2022
$m
$m
$m
Short-term employee benefits 
 
53 
51 
52 
Post-employment benefits 
 
1 
1 
1 
Other long-term employee benefits 
 
12 
10 
8 
Share-based payments 
 
29 
29 
26 
Year ended 31 Dec
 
95 
91 
87 
Shareholdings, options and other securities of Key Management Personnel
2024
2023
(000s)
(000s)
Number of options held over HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under employee share plans 
 
20 
32 
Number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares held beneficially and non-beneficially 
 
17,455 
20,409 
Number of other HSBC securities held
 
228 
228 
At 31 Dec
 
17,703 
20,669 
Advances and credits, guarantees and deposit balances during the year with Key Management Personnel
2024
2023
Balance at
31 Dec
Highest amounts
outstanding
during year
Balance at
31 Dec
Highest amounts
outstanding
during year
$m
$m
$m
$m
Key Management Personnel
Advances and credits1
 
9 
12 
11 
16 
Deposits
 
78 
191 
60 
130 
1 Advances and credits entered into by subsidiaries of HSBC Holdings plc during 2024 with Directors and former Directors, disclosed pursuant to section 413 of 
the Companies Act 2006, totalled $1.3m (2023: $2.6m). 
Unless previously disclosed, there were no connected transactions during the reporting period that fell outside the exemptions provided by the 
Companies Act 2006, the UK Financial Conduct Authority’s Listing Rules and the Rules Governing The Listing of Securities on The Stock 
Exchange of Hong Kong Limited. The transactions conducted were in the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, 
including interest rates and security, as for comparable transactions with parties of a similar standing or, where applicable, with other 
employees. These transactions did not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavourable features.
Associates and joint ventures
The Group provides certain banking and financial services to associates and joint ventures including loans, overdrafts, interest and non-interest 
bearing deposits and current accounts. Details of the interests in associates and joint ventures are given in Note 18.
Transactions and balances during the year with associates and joint ventures
2024
2023
Highest balance 
during the year
Balance at
31 Dec
Highest balance
during the year
Balance at
31 Dec
$m
$m
$m
$m
Unsubordinated amounts due from joint ventures
 
104 
72 
98 
94 
Unsubordinated amounts due from associates
 
8,097 
5,011 
7,907 
5,910 
Amounts due to associates 
 
2,992 
1,844 
3,002 
1,668 
Amounts due to joint ventures
 
101 
85 
95 
61 
Fair value of derivative assets with associates 
 
919 
763 
1,514 
795 
Fair value of derivative liabilities with associates
 
3,718 
2,641 
4,388 
2,962 
Guarantees and commitments
 
569 
577 
503 
331 
The above outstanding balances arose in the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and 
security, as for comparable transactions with third-party counterparties.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
429
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Post-employment benefit plans
At 31 December 2024, $3.4bn (2023: $3.1bn) of HSBC post-employment benefit plan assets were under management by HSBC companies, 
earning management fees of $14m in 2024 (2023: $13m). At 31 December 2024, HSBC’s post-employment benefit plans had placed deposits 
of $395m (2023: $402m) with its banking subsidiaries, earning interest payable to the schemes of $2m (2023: $2m). The above outstanding 
balances arose from the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and security, as for 
comparable transactions with third-party counterparties.
The combined HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme enters into swap transactions with HSBC to manage inflation and interest rate sensitivity of 
its liabilities and selected assets. At 31 December 2024, the gross notional value of the swaps was $6.4bn (2023: $7.1bn). These swaps had a 
positive fair value to the scheme of $0.4bn (2023: $0.5bn); and HSBC had delivered collateral of $0.4bn (2023: $0.6bn) to the scheme in respect 
of these arrangements. All swaps were executed at prevailing market rates and within standard market bid/offer spreads.
HSBC Holdings
Details of HSBC Holdings’ subsidiaries are shown in Note 38.
Transactions and balances during the year with subsidiaries
2024
2023
Highest balance
during the year
Balance at
31 Dec
Highest balance
during the year
Balance at
31 Dec
$m
$m
$m
$m
Assets 
Cash and balances with HSBC undertakings
 
9,342 
2,548 
8,396 
7,029 
Financial assets with HSBC undertakings designated and otherwise mandatorily 
measured at fair value
 
66,030 
61,286 
60,309 
59,879 
Derivatives 
 
3,391 
3,054 
4,010 
3,344 
Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings
 
37,677 
37,677 
28,213 
27,354 
Prepayments, accrued income and other assets
 
7,108 
4,216 
7,417 
5,145 
Investments in subsidiaries 
 
160,805 
152,337 
167,542 
159,478 
Total related party assets at 31 Dec
 
284,353 
261,118 
275,887 
262,229 
Liabilities
Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings 
 
231 
231 
179 
168 
Derivatives 
 
7,944 
5,340 
9,309 
6,090 
Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities
 
399 
194 
505 
341 
Subordinated liabilities
 
1,202 
— 
927 
913 
Total related party liabilities at 31 Dec
 
9,776 
5,765 
10,920 
7,512 
Guarantees and commitments
 
7,440 
7,327 
7,723 
7,723 
 
The above outstanding balances arose in the ordinary course of business and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and 
security, as for comparable transactions with third-party counterparties.
Some employees of HSBC Holdings are members of the HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme, which is sponsored by a separate Group company. 
HSBC Holdings incurs a charge for these employees equal to the contributions paid into the scheme on their behalf. Disclosure in relation to 
the scheme is made in Note 5.
37 Events after the balance sheet date 
A fourth interim dividend for 2024 of $0.36 per ordinary share (a distribution of approximately $6.4bn was approved by the Directors after 
31 December 2024. On 19 February 2025, HSBC Holdings announced a share buy-back to purchase its ordinary shares up to a maximum 
consideration of $2.0bn, which is expected to commence shortly and complete by our first quarter 2025 results announcement. On 30 January 
2025, HSBC Holdings called $1,750m 2.999% fixed rate/floating rate senior unsecured and $500m floating rate senior unsecured securities. 
These securities are expected to be redeemed and cancelled on 10 March 2025. On 7 February 2025, HSBC Holdings called $2,450m 6.375% 
perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities which are expected to be redeemed and cancelled on 30 March 2025. The accounts 
were approved by the Board of Directors on 19 February 2025 and authorised for issue.
38 HSBC Holdings’ subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates
In accordance with section 409 of the Companies Act 2006 a list of HSBC Holdings plc subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, the 
registered office addresses and the effective percentages of equity owned at 31 December 2024 are disclosed below.
Unless otherwise stated, the share capital comprises ordinary or common shares that are held by Group subsidiaries. The ownership 
percentage is provided for each undertaking. The undertakings below are consolidated by HSBC unless otherwise indicated.
Notes on the financial statements
430
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Subsidiaries 
AI Nominees (UK) One Limited
100.00
12
AI Nominees (UK) Two Limited
100.00
12
Almacenadora Banpacifico S.A. (In 
Liquidation)
N/A
1, 13
Assetfinance December (F) Limited
100.00
14
Assetfinance December (H) Limited
100.00
12
Assetfinance December (P) Limited
100.00
12
Assetfinance December (R) Limited
100.00
12
Assetfinance June (A) Limited
100.00
12
Assetfinance June (D) Limited
100.00
14
Assetfinance March (B) Limited
100.00
15
Assetfinance March (D) Limited
100.00
14
Assetfinance March (F) Limited
100.00
12
Assetfinance September (F) Limited
100.00
12
Assetfinance September (G) Limited
100.00
14
B&Q Financial Services Limited
100.00
12
Banco HSBC S.A.
100.00
16
Banco Nominees (Guernsey) Limited
100.00
17
Banco Nominees 2 (Guernsey) Limited
100.00
17
Banco Nominees Limited
100.00
18
Beau Soleil Limited Partnership
N/A
1, 19
Beijing HSBC Real Estate Leasing Company 
Limited
N/A
1, 20
Beijing Miyun HSBC Rural Bank Company 
Limited
100.00
11, 21
BentallGreenOak China Real Estate 
Investments, L.P.
N/A
1, 22
Canada Crescent Nominees (UK) Limited (In 
Liquidation)
100.00
23
Canada Square Nominees (UK) Limited
100.00
12
Capco/Cove, Inc.
100.00
24
Card-Flo #3, Inc.
100.00
25
CC&H Holdings LLC
N/A
1, 26
CCF & Partners Asset Management Limited
100.00
(99.99)
12
Charterhouse Administrators (D.T.) Limited
100.00
(99.99)
12
Charterhouse Management Services Limited
100.00
(99.99)
12
Charterhouse Pensions Limited
100.00
12
Chongqing Dazu HSBC Rural Bank Company 
Limited
100.00
11, 28
Chongqing Fengdu HSBC Rural Bank 
Company Limited
100.00
11, 29
Chongqing Rongchang HSBC Rural Bank 
Company Limited
100.00
11, 30
CI 10 LP Inc
N/A
107
COIF Nominees Limited
N/A
1, 12
Corsair IV Financial Services Capital Partners B L.P
N/A
1, 31
D9 LP Inc
N/A
107
Dalian Pulandian HSBC Rural Bank Company 
Limited
100.00
11, 32
Decision One Mortgage Company, LLC
N/A
1, 33
Dempar 1
100.00
(99.99)
5, 34
Desarrollo Turistico, S.A. de C.V. (In 
Liquidation)
100.00
(99.99)
13
Electronic Data Process México, S.A. de C.V.
100.00
35
ERISA Actions Europe N°2
N/A
1, 175
ERISA Actions Grandes Valeurs
N/A
1, 175
ERISA Opportunities
N/A
1, 175
Eton Corporate Services Limited
100.00
17
Flandres Contentieux S.A.
100.00
(99.99)
5, 34
Foncière Elysées
100.00
(99.99)
5, 34
Fujian Yongan HSBC Rural Bank Company 
Limited
100.00
11, 36
Fulcher Enterprises Company Limited
100.00
(63.12)
37
Fundacion HSBC, A.C.
100.00
(99.99)
2, 9, 13
Subsidiaries
% of share class 
held by immediate 
parent company 
(or by the Group 
where this varies)
Footnotes
Giller Ltd.
100.00
24
GPIF Co-Investment, LLC
N/A
1, 25
Griffin International Limited
100.00
12
Grupo Financiero HSBC, S. A. de C. V.
99.99
13
Guangdong Enping HSBC Rural Bank 
Company Limited
100.00
11, 38
Guangzhou HSBC Real Estate Company Ltd
100.00
11, 39
H5 LP Inc
N/A
107
H8 LP Inc
N/A
107
H9 LP Inc 
N/A
107
Hang Seng (Nominee) Limited
100.00
(63.12)
37
Hang Seng Bank (China) Limited
100.00
(63.12)
11, 40
Hang Seng Bank (Trustee) Limited
100.00
(63.12)
37
Hang Seng Bank Limited
63.12
37
Hang Seng Bullion Company Limited
100.00
(63.12)
37
Hang Seng Credit Limited
100.00
(63.12)
37
Hang Seng Data Services Limited
100.00
(63.12)
37
Hang Seng Finance Limited
100.00
(63.12)
37
Hang Seng Financial Information Limited
100.00
(63.12)
37
Hang Seng Indexes (Netherlands) B.V.
N/A
1, 41
Hang Seng Indexes Company Limited
100.00
(63.12)
37
Hang Seng Insurance Company Limited
100.00
(63.12)
37
Hang Seng Investment Management Limited
100.00
(63.12)
37
Hang Seng Investment Services Limited
100.00
(63.12)
37
Hang Seng Japan Topix 100 Index ETF
66.43
19
Hang Seng Qianhai Fund Management 
Company Limited
70.00
(43.86)
11, 42
Hang Seng Real Estate Management Limited
100.00
(63.12)
37
Hang Seng Securities Limited
100.00
(63.12)
37
Hang Seng Security Management Limited
100.00
(63.12)
37
HASE Wealth Limited
N/A
137
Haseba Investment Company Limited
100.00
(63.12)
37
HBPH Corporation (In Dissolution)
99.99
43
HFC Bank Limited (In Liquidation)
100.00
44
High Time Investments Limited
100.00
(63.12)
37
HLF
100.00
(99.99)
5, 34
Honey Blue Enterprises Limited (亨京企業有
限公司)
100.00
19
Honey Green Enterprises Ltd.
100.00
45
Honey Grey Enterprises Limited (亨穗企業有
限公司)
100.00
19
Honey Silver Enterprises Limited
100.00
19
Household International Europe Limited (In 
Liquidation)
100.00
44
Household Pooling Corporation
100.00
47
Housing (USA) LLP
N/A
1, 25
HSBC (BGF) Investments Limited
100.00
12
HSBC (General Partner) Limited
100.00
3, 48
HSBC (Guernsey) GP PCC Limited
100.00
17
HSBC (Kuala Lumpur) Nominees Sdn Bhd
100.00
49
HSBC (Malaysia) Trustee Berhad
100.00
50
HSBC (Singapore) Nominees Pte Ltd
100.00
51
HSBC Actions Europe
50.66
175
HSBC Agency (India) Private Limited
100.00
52
HSBC Alternative Investments Limited
100.00
12
HSBC Amanah Malaysia Berhad
100.00
49
HSBC Americas Corporation (Delaware)
100.00
25
HSBC Asia Holdings B.V.
100.00
12
HSBC Asia Holdings Limited
100.00
3, 19
HSBC Asia Pacific Holdings (UK) Limited
100.00
6, 12
HSBC Asset Finance (UK) Limited
100.00
12
HSBC Asset Finance M.O.G. Holdings (UK) 
Limited
100.00
12
HSBC Asset Management (Fund Services UK) 
Limited
100.00
12
Subsidiaries
% of share class 
held by immediate 
parent company 
(or by the Group 
where this varies)
Footnotes
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
431
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

HSBC Asset Management (India) Private 
Limited
99.99
53
HSBC Asset Management (Japan) Limited
100.00
54
HSBC Assurances Vie (France)
100.00
(99.99)
5, 55
HSBC Australia Holdings Pty Limited
100.00
6, 56
HSBC BANK (CHILE)
100.00
57
HSBC Bank (China) Company Limited
100.00
11, 58
HSBC Bank (General Partner) Limited
100.00
48
HSBC Bank (Mauritius) Limited
100.00
59
HSBC Bank (Singapore) Limited
100.00
51
HSBC Bank (Taiwan) Limited
100.00
60
HSBC Bank (Uruguay) S.A.
100.00
61
HSBC Bank (Vietnam) Ltd.
100.00
62
HSBC Bank A.S.
100.00
63
HSBC Bank Australia Limited
100.00
56
HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited
100.00
18
HSBC Bank Capital Funding (Sterling 1) LP
N/A
1, 48
HSBC Bank Egypt S.A.E
94.54
64
HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad
100.00
4, 49
HSBC Bank Malta p.l.c.
70.03
65
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited
100.00
4, 66
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited 
Representative Office Morocco SARL (In 
Liquidation)
100.00
67
HSBC Bank Pension Trust (UK) Limited
100.00
12
HSBC Bank plc
100.00
3, 4, 12
HSBC Bank USA, National Association
100.00
4, 68
HSBC Branch Nominee (UK) Limited
100.00
14
HSBC Brasil Holding S.A.
100.00
16
HSBC Broking Forex (Asia) Limited
100.00
19
HSBC Broking Futures (Asia) Limited
100.00
19
HSBC Broking Futures (Hong Kong) Limited
100.00
19
HSBC Broking Securities (Asia) Limited
100.00
19
HSBC Broking Securities (Hong Kong) Limited
100.00
19
HSBC Broking Services (Asia) Limited
100.00
19
HSBC Capital (USA), Inc.
100.00
25
HSBC Capital Funding (Dollar 1) L.P.
N/A
1, 48
HSBC Card Services Inc.
100.00
25
HSBC Casa de Bolsa, S.A. de C.V., Grupo 
Financiero HSBC
100.00
(99.99)
13
HSBC Cayman Limited
100.00
69
HSBC Cayman Services Limited
100.00
69
HSBC Client Holdings Nominee (UK) Limited
100.00
12
HSBC Client Nominee (Jersey) Limited
100.00
2, 70
HSBC Climate Tech Venture Capital Fund 
SCSp
87.15
177
HSBC Columbia Funding, LLC
N/A
125
HSBC Continental Europe
99.99
5, 34
HSBC Corporate Advisory (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd
100.00
49
HSBC Corporate Finance (Hong Kong) Limited
100.00
19
HSBC Corporate Secretary (UK) Limited
100.00
3, 12
HSBC Corporate Services (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.
N/A
1, 71
HSBC Corporate Trustee Company (UK) 
Limited
100.00
12
HSBC Custody Nominees (Australia) Limited
100.00
56
HSBC Custody Services (Guernsey) Limited
100.00
17
HSBC Daisy Investments (Mauritius) Limited
100.00
72
HSBC Diversified Loan Fund General Partner 
Sarl
N/A
1, 73
HSBC Diversified Loan SCSp-RAIF 
N/A
73
Subsidiaries
% of share class 
held by immediate 
parent company 
(or by the Group 
where this varies)
Footnotes
HSBC Electronic Data Processing 
(Guangdong) Limited
100.00
11, 74
HSBC Electronic Data Processing (Malaysia) 
Sdn Bhd
100.00
75
HSBC Electronic Data Processing 
(Philippines), Inc.
99.99
76
HSBC Electronic Data Processing India 
Private Limited
100.00
77
HSBC Electronic Data Processing Lanka 
(Private) Limited
100.00
78
HSBC Electronic Data Service Delivery 
(Egypt) S.A.E
100.00
79
HSBC Equipment Finance (UK) Limited
100.00
14
HSBC Equity (UK) Limited
100.00
12
HSBC EURO Protect 80+
78.06
55
HSBC Europe B.V.
100.00
12
HSBC European Senior Direct Lending Fund 
2023 RAIF SICAV-S.A.
43.00
91
HSBC Executor & Trustee Company (UK) 
Limited
100.00
14
HSBC Factoring (France)
100.00
(99.99)
5, 34
HSBC Finance (Netherlands)
100.00
3, 12
HSBC Finance Corporation
100.00
25
HSBC Finance Limited
100.00
12
HSBC Finance Transformation (UK) Limited
100.00
12
HSBC Financial Advisors Singapore Pte. Ltd.
100.00
2, 51
HSBC Financial Services (Lebanon) S.A.L
99.83
80
HSBC Financial Technology Venture Capital 
Fund SCSp
100.00
177
HSBC FinTech Services (Shanghai) Company 
Limited
N/A
1, 2, 81
HSBC Global Asset Management (Bermuda) 
Limited
100.00
4, 18
HSBC Global Asset Management 
(Deutschland) GmbH
100.00
(99.99)
7, 82
HSBC Global Asset Management (France)
100.00
(99.99)
5, 55
HSBC Global Asset Management (Hong 
Kong) Limited
100.00
83
HSBC Global Asset Management (Malta) 
Limited
100.00
(70.03)
84
HSBC Global Asset Management (México), 
S.A. de C.V., Sociedad Operadora de Fondos 
de Inversión, Grupo Financiero HSBC
100.00
(99.99)
13
HSBC Global Asset Management (Singapore) 
Limited
100.00
51
HSBC Global Asset Management 
(Switzerland) AG
100.00
5, 171
HSBC Global Asset Management (Taiwan) 
Limited
100.00
86
HSBC Global Asset Management (UK) 
Limited
100.00
12
HSBC Global Asset Management (USA) Inc.
100.00
87
HSBC Global Asset Management Holdings 
(Bahamas) Limited
100.00
88
HSBC Global Asset Management Limited
100.00
3, 12
HSBC Global Custody Nominee (UK) Limited
100.00
12
HSBC Global Custody Proprietary Nominee 
(UK) Limited
100.00
12
HSBC Global Funds ICAV - Digital Leaders 
Equity Fund
100.00
27
HSBC Global Funds ICAV - Euro Lower 
Carbon Government 10+ Year Bond UCITS 
ETF
100.00
27
HSBC Global Funds ICAV - Euro Lower 
Carbon Government 1-3 Year Bond UCITS 
ETF
100.00
27
HSBC Global Funds ICAV - Global Aggregate 
Bond ESG UCITS ETF
100.00
27
Subsidiaries
% of share class 
held by immediate 
parent company 
(or by the Group 
where this varies)
Footnotes
Notes on the financial statements
432
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

HSBC Global Funds ICAV - Global Equity 
Index Fund -ACEUR
N/A
1, 176
HSBC Global Funds ICAV - Japan Equity Index 
Fund
99.77
105
HSBC Global Infrastructure Debt Fund Feeder 
SCA SICAV-RAIF- Global Infrastructure Debt 
EUR
N/A
1, 91
HSBC GLOBAL INVESTMENT FUNDS - ASIA 
ESG BOND
93.03
129
HSBC Global Investment Funds – ESG Short 
Duration Credit Bond
74.22
129
HSBC GLOBAL INVESTMENT FUNDS GLOBAL EMERGING MARKETS EQUITY
56.47
129
HSBC Global Investment Funds - Strategic 
Duration and Income Bond
100.00
129
HSBC Global Multi-asset Seeding course 
(Stable Type)
67.39
54
HSBC Global Services (Canada) Limited
100.00
89
HSBC Global Services (China) Holdings 
Limited
100.00
12
HSBC Global Services (Hong Kong) Limited
100.00
19
HSBC Global Services (UK) Limited
100.00
12
HSBC Global Services Limited
100.00
3, 12
HSBC Global Transition Infrastructure Debt 
Fund RAIF SICAV-S.A.
31.00
91
HSBC Group Management Services Limited
100.00
12
HSBC Group Nominees UK Limited
100.00
3, 12
HSBC Holdings B.V.
100.00
12
HSBC Horizon 2034 2036 A 3D
76.72
175
HSBC India Small Cap Equity Fund (QII）
40.38
54
HSBC Infrastructure Debt GP 1 S.à r.l.
N/A
1, 91
HSBC Infrastructure Debt GP 2 S.à r.l.
N/A
1, 91
HSBC Innovation Bank Limited
100.00
92
HSBC INSN (Non Operating) Pte. Ltd. (In 
Liquidation)
100.00
51
HSBC Institutional Trust Services (Asia) 
Limited
100.00
19
HSBC Institutional Trust Services (Bermuda) 
Limited
100.00
18
HSBC Institutional Trust Services (Mauritius) 
Limited
100.00
93
HSBC Institutional Trust Services (Singapore) 
Limited
100.00
51
HSBC Insurance (Asia) Limited
100.00
95
HSBC Insurance (Asia-Pacific) Holdings 
Limited
100.00
83
HSBC Insurance (Bermuda) Limited
100.00
96
HSBC Insurance Agency (USA) Inc.
100.00
97
HSBC Insurance Brokerage Company Limited
N/A
1,2, 98
HSBC Insurance Brokers Greater China 
Limited
100.00
83
HSBC Insurance SAC 1 (Bermuda) Limited
100.00
18
HSBC Insurance SAC 2 (Bermuda) Limited
100.00
18
HSBC Insurance Services Holdings Limited 
(In Liquidation)
100.00
23
HSBC International Finance Corporation 
(Delaware)
100.00
100
HSBC International Trustee (BVI) Limited
100.00
10, 101
HSBC International Trustee (Holdings) Pte. 
Limited
100.00
51
HSBC International Trustee Limited
100.00
102
HSBC Inversiones S.A.
100.00
57
HSBC InvestDirect (India) Private Limited
99.99
53
HSBC InvestDirect Financial Services (India) 
Limited
99.99
53
HSBC InvestDirect Sales & Marketing (India) 
Private Limited
98.99
(98.98)
103
HSBC InvestDirect Securities (India) Private 
Limited
99.99
53
Subsidiaries
% of share class 
held by immediate 
parent company 
(or by the Group 
where this varies)
Footnotes
HSBC Investment and Insurance Brokerage, 
Philippines Inc.
99.99
104
HSBC Investment Bank Holdings B.V.
100.00
12
HSBC Investment Bank Holdings Limited
100.00
12
HSBC Investment Company Limited
100.00
3, 12
HSBC Investment Funds (Hong Kong) Limited
100.00
83
HSBC Investment Funds (Luxembourg) SA
100.00
105
HSBC Invoice Finance (UK) Limited
100.00
14
HSBC Issuer Services Common Depositary 
Nominee (UK) Limited
100.00
12
HSBC Latin America B.V.
100.00
12
HSBC Latin America Holdings (UK) Limited
100.00
3, 12
HSBC Leasing (Asia) Limited
100.00
19
HSBC Legacy Partnership Limited
100.00
12
HSBC Life (Bermuda) Limited
100.00
18
HSBC Life (Cornell Centre) Limited
100.00
95
HSBC Life (Edwick Centre) Limited
100.00
95
HSBC Life (International) Limited
100.00
18
HSBC Life (Property) Limited
100.00
95
HSBC Life (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.
100.00
51
HSBC Life (Tsing Yi Industrial) Limited
100.00
95
HSBC Life (UK) Limited
100.00
12
HSBC Life (Workshop) Limited
100.00
95
HSBC Life Assurance (Malta) Ltd.
100.00
(70.03)
84
HSBC Life Insurance Company Limited
100.00
11, 106
HSBC LU Nominees Limited
100.00
12
HSBC Management (Guernsey) Limited
100.00
107
HSBC Markets (USA) Inc.
100.00
25
HSBC Marking Name Nominee (UK) Limited
100.00
12
HSBC Master Trust Trustee Limited (In 
Liquidation)
100.00
23
HSBC Mexico, S.A., Institucion de Banca 
Multiple, Grupo Financiero HSBC
99.99
13
HSBC Middle East Asset CO. LLC
100.00
108
HSBC Middle East Holdings B.V.
100.00
3, 4, 66
HSBC Middle East Leasing Partnership
N/A
1, 109
HSBC Middle East Securities L.L.C
100.00
110
HSBC Mix Dynamique
58.13
55
HSBC Mortgage Corporation (USA)
100.00
25
HSBC Multi-Asset Style Factors S
N/A
1, 175
HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
100.00
49
HSBC Nominees (Hong Kong) Limited
100.00
19
HSBC Nominees (New Zealand) Limited
100.00
111
HSBC Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
100.00
49
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
100.00
4, 25
HSBC Operational Services GmbH
100.00
(99.99)
7, 82
HSBC Overseas Holdings (UK) Limited
100.00
3, 12
HSBC Overseas Investments Corporation 
(New York)
100.00
112
HSBC Overseas Nominee (UK) Limited
100.00
12
HSBC PB Corporate Services 1 Limited
100.00
113
HSBC PB Services (Suisse) SA
100.00
114
HSBC Pension Trust (Ireland) DAC
100.00
115
HSBC Pensiones, S.A. (In Liquidation)
100.00
(99.99)
13
HSBC PI Holdings (Mauritius) Limited
100.00
116
HSBC Portfolios – World Selection 5 (Part 
ACHEUR)
N/A
1, 105
HSBC Portfoy Yonetimi A.S.
100.00
117
HSBC Preferential LP (UK)
100.00
12
HSBC Private Bank (Luxembourg) S.A.
100.00
(99.99)
105
HSBC Private Bank (Suisse) SA
100.00
114
HSBC Private Bank (UK) Limited
100.00
12
HSBC Private Banking Holdings (Suisse) SA
100.00
114
HSBC Private Banking Nominee 3 (Jersey) 
Limited
100.00
113
HSBC Private Equity Investments (UK) 
Limited
100.00
12
HSBC Private Markets Management SARL
N/A
1, 2, 118
Subsidiaries
% of share class 
held by immediate 
parent company 
(or by the Group 
where this varies)
Footnotes
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
433
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

HSBC Private Trustee (Hong Kong) Limited
100.00
19
HSBC Professional Services (India) Private 
Limited
100.00
119
HSBC Property (UK) Limited
100.00
12
HSBC Property Funds (Holding) Limited
100.00
12
HSBC Provident Fund Trustee (Hong Kong) 
Limited
100.00
19
HSBC Qianhai Securities Limited
90.00
11, 120
HSBC RCF Partnership Fund RAIF SICAV-S.A.
11.00
175
HSBC Real Estate Leasing (France)
100.00
(99.99)
5, 34
HSBC REGIO Fund General Partner S.à r.l.
100.00
91
HSBC REIM (France)
100.00
(99.99)
5, 55
HSBC Responsible Investment Funds - SRI 
Balanced
64.14
55
HSBC Responsible Investment Funds - SRI 
Dynamic
72.79
55
HSBC Resposible Investment Funds - SRI 
Global Equity A
N/A
1, 175
HSBC Retirement Benefits Trustee (UK) 
Limited
100.00
3, 12
HSBC Retirement Services Limited (In 
Liquidation)
100.00
23
HSBC Saudi Arabia, Closed Joint Stock 
Company
100.00
(66.19)
121
HSBC Securities (Egypt) S.A.E. (In 
Liquidation)
100.00
(94.65)
122
HSBC Securities (Japan) Co., Ltd.
100.00
54
HSBC Securities (Singapore) Pte Limited
100.00
51
HSBC Securities (South Africa) (Pty) Limited
100.00
123
HSBC Securities (Taiwan) Corporation Limited
100.00
60
HSBC Securities (USA) Inc.
100.00
25
HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) 
Private Limited
99.99
6, 103
HSBC Securities Brokers (Asia) Limited
100.00
19
HSBC Securities Investments (Asia) Limited
100.00
19
HSBC Securities Services (Bermuda) Limited
100.00
18
HSBC Securities Services (Guernsey) Limited
100.00
17
HSBC Securities Services (Ireland) DAC
100.00
115
HSBC Securities Services (Luxembourg) S.A.
100.00
105
HSBC Securities Services Holdings (Ireland) 
DAC
100.00
115
HSBC Securities Services Nominees Limited
100.00
19
HSBC Seguros, S.A de C.V., Grupo Financiero 
HSBC
100.00
(99.99)
13
HSBC Select Dynamic
80.59
55
HSBC Select Equity
86.38
55
HSBC Select Flexible 
63.93
55
HSBC Semfi Limited
75.00
12
HSBC Senior UK Direct Lending 2020 RAIF 
SICAV-S.A
N/A
91
HSBC Senior UK Direct Lending Fund II RAIF 
SICAV-S.A.
72.46
91
HSBC Service Company Germany GmbH
100.00
(99.99)
7, 82
HSBC Service Delivery (Polska) Sp. z o.o.
100.00
124
HSBC Services (France)
100.00
(99.99)
5, 34
HSBC Services Japan Limited
100.00
88
HSBC Services USA Inc.
100.00
125
HSBC Servicios Financieros, S.A. de C.V
100.00
(99.99)
13
HSBC Servicios, S.A. DE C.V., Grupo 
Financiero HSBC
100.00
(99.99)
13
HSBC SFT (C.I.) Limited
100.00
17
HSBC Singapore Dollar Liquidity Fund
76.37
51
HSBC Small Cap France
52.70
55
HSBC Software Development (Guangdong) 
Limited
100.00
11, 126
HSBC Software Development (India) Private 
Limited
100.00
127
Subsidiaries
% of share class 
held by immediate 
parent company 
(or by the Group 
where this varies)
Footnotes
HSBC Software Development (Malaysia) Sdn 
Bhd
100.00
75
HSBC Specialist Investments Limited
100.00
6, 12
HSBC Technology & Services (China) Limited 
(In Liquidation)
N/A
1, 128
HSBC Technology & Services (USA) Inc.
100.00
25
HSBC Transaction Services GmbH
100.00
(99.99)
7, 82
HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt (International) 
S.A.
100.00
(99.99)
129
HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt Gesellschaft fur 
Bankbeteiligungen mbH
100.00
(99.99)
82
HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt GmbH
100.00
(99.99)
7, 82
HSBC Trinkaus Family Office GmbH
100.00
(99.99)
7, 82
HSBC Trinkaus Real Estate GmbH
100.00
(99.99)
7, 82
HSBC Trust Company (Delaware), National 
Association
100.00
100
HSBC Trust Company (UK) Limited
100.00
12
HSBC Trustee (C.I.) Limited
100.00
113
HSBC Trustee (Cayman) Limited
100.00
69
HSBC Trustee (Guernsey) Limited
100.00
17
HSBC Trustee (Hong Kong) Limited
100.00
19
HSBC Trustee (Singapore) Limited
100.00
51
HSBC Trustees (India) Private Limited
99.99
103
HSBC UK Bank plc
100.00
3, 14
HSBC UK Client Nominee Limited
100.00
14
HSBC UK Covered Bonds LLP
N/A
1, 14
HSBC UK Societal Projects Limited
N/A
1, 14
HSBC USA Inc.
100.00
4, 112
HSBC Ventures USA Inc.
100.00
25
HSBC Violet Investments (Mauritius) Limited
100.00
72
HSBC Wealth Client Nominee Limited
100.00
14
HSBC World Equity Protect 80
98.87
55
HSBC Yatirim Menkul Degerler A.S.
100.00
63
HSI Asset Securitization Corporation
100.00
25
HSI International Limited
100.00
(63.12)
37
HSIL Investments Limited
100.00
12
Hubei Macheng HSBC Rural Bank Company 
Limited
100.00
11, 131
Hubei Suizhou Cengdu HSBC Rural Bank 
Company Limited
100.00
11, 132
Hubei Tianmen HSBC Rural Bank Company 
Limited
100.00
11, 133
Hunan Pingjiang HSBC Rural Bank Company 
Limited
100.00
11, 134
I3 LP Inc.
N/A
107
Imenson Limited
100.00
(63.12)
37
INHK PC LP Inc
100.00
17
INHK PE LP Inc
100.00
17
Inmobiliaria Bisa, S.A. de C.V.
99.99
13
Inmobiliaria Grufin, S.A. de C.V.
100.00
(99.99)
13
Inmobiliaria Guatusi, S.A. de C.V.
100.00
(99.99)
13
Internationale Kapitalanlagegesellschaft mit 
beschränkter Haftung
100.00
(99.99)
82
J6 LP Inc
N/A
107
James Capel (Nominees) Limited
100.00
12
James Capel (Taiwan) Nominees Limited
100.00
12
Keyser Ullmann Limited
100.00
(99.99)
12
L1 LP Inc
N/A
107
Lion Corporate Services Limited
100.00
19
Lion International Corporate Services Limited
100.00
135
Lion International Management Limited
100.00
135
Lion Management (Hong Kong) Limited
100.00
19
Lyndholme Limited
100.00
19
Marks and Spencer Financial Services plc
100.00
136
Marks and Spencer Unit Trust Management 
Limited
100.00
136
Midcorp Limited
100.00
12
Midland Bank (Branch Nominees) Limited
100.00
14
Subsidiaries
% of share class 
held by immediate 
parent company 
(or by the Group 
where this varies)
Footnotes
Notes on the financial statements
434
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Midland Nominees Limited
100.00
14
MP Payments Group Limited
100.00
12
MP Payments Middle East AE L.L.C.
100.00
137
MP Payments Netherlands B.V.
100.00
138
MP Payments Operations Limited
100.00
12
MP Payments Singapore Pte. Ltd.
100.00
51
MP Payments UK Limited
100.00
12
P2 LP Inc
N/A
107
Prudential Client HSBC GIS Nominee (UK) 
Limited
100.00
12
PT Bank HSBC Indonesia
98.94
139
PT HSBC Sekuritas Indonesia
85.00
140
R/CLIP Corp.
100.00
25
Real Estate Collateral Management Company
100.00
25
Red Hexagon Energy Transition Asia GP S.à 
r.l.
100.00
2, 91
Republic Nominees Limited
100.00
17
RLUKREF Nominees (UK) One Limited
100.00
12
RLUKREF Nominees (UK) Two Limited
100.00
12
S.A.P.C. - Ufipro Recouvrement
99.99
9, 34
Saf Baiyun
100.00
(99.99)
5, 34
Saf Guangzhou
100.00
(99.99)
5, 34
SCI HSBC Assurances Immo
100.00
(99.99)
9, 55
SCPI Elysees Grand Large
98.50
175
Select INKA 
N/A
1, 82
Serai Limited
100.00
19
SFM
100.00
(99.99)
5, 34
SFSS Nominees (Pty) Limited
100.00
123
Shandong Rongcheng HSBC Rural Bank 
Company Limited
100.00
11, 141
Shenzhen HSBC Development Company Ltd
100.00
11, 142
Sico Limited
100.00
143
SilkRoad Fund Management S.à.r.l
100.00
2, 144
Silkroad GP II Limited
100.00
2, 145
Silkroad GP II S.a.r.l.
100.00
2, 144
Silkroad GP Limited
100.00
2, 69
Silkroad GP SC S.a r.l
100.00
2, 146
Silkroad Property Partners K.K. (In Liquidation)
100.00
147
Silkroad Property Partners Limited
100.00
148
Silkroad Property Partners Management 
Consultancy Limited
N/A
1, 149
Silkroad Property Partners PTE. LTD.
100.00
150
SNC Les Oliviers D'Antibes
60.00
(59.99)
9, 55
SNCB/M6-2007 A
100.00
(99.99)
2, 5, 34
SNCB/M6-2007 B
100.00
(99.99)
2, 5, 34
SNCB/M6-2008 A
100.00
(99.99)
2, 5, 34
Société Française et Suisse
100.00
(99.99)
5, 34
Somers Dublin DAC
100.00
(99.99)
115
Somers Nominees (Far East) Limited
100.00
18
Sopingest
100.00
(99.99)
5, 34
South Yorkshire Light Rail Limited
100.00
12
St Cross Trustees Limited
100.00
14
Sun Hung Kai Development (Lujiazui III) 
Limited
100.00
11, 151
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited
100.00
19
Tooley Street View Limited
100.00
3, 12
Trinkaus Europa Immobilien-Fonds Nr.3 
Objekt Utrecht Verwaltungs-GmbH
100.00
(99.99)
7, 82
Trinkaus Immobilien-Fonds 
Geschaeftsfuehrungs-GmbH
100.00
(99.99)
7, 82
Trinkaus Immobilien-Fonds VerwaltungsGmbH
100.00
(99.99)
7, 82
Trinkaus Private Equity Management GmbH
100.00
(99.99)
7, 82
Trinkaus Private Equity Verwaltungs GmbH
100.00
(99.99)
7, 82
Turnsonic (Nominees) Limited
100.00
14
Valeurs Mobilières Elysées
100.00
(99.99)
5, 34
Subsidiaries
% of share class 
held by immediate 
parent company 
(or by the Group 
where this varies)
Footnotes
W4 LP Inc
N/A
107
WARDLEY LIMITED
100.00
19
Wayfoong Nominees Limited
100.00
19
Westminster House, LLC
N/A
1, 25
Woodex Limited
100.00
18
Yan Nin Development Company Limited
100.00
(63.12)
37
Subsidiaries
% of share class 
held by immediate 
parent company 
(or by the Group 
where this varies)
Footnotes
 
Joint ventures
The undertakings below are joint ventures and equity accounted.
Joint ventures
% of share class 
held by immediate 
parent company (or 
by the Group 
where this varies)
Footnotes
Climate Asset Management Limited
N/A
1,2, 152
Global Payments Technology México, S.A. de 
C.V.
 
50.00 
 
(49.99) 
2, 153
MK HoldCo Limited
 
50.32 
2, 154
Pentagreen Capital Pte. Ltd
 
50.00 
155
ProServe Bermuda Limited
 
50.00 
156
The London Silver Market Fixing Limited
N/A
1,2, 157
Vaultex UK Limited
 
50.00 
158
 
Non-Profit Foundation
The undertakings below are Non-Profit Foundation.
Non-Profit Foundation
% of share class 
held by 
immediate parent 
company (or by 
the Group where 
this varies)
Footnotes
HSBC Philanthropy Foundation Beijing 
N/A
1, 175
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
435
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Associates
The undertakings below are associates and equity accounted.
Associates
% of share class 
held by 
immediate parent 
company (or by 
the Group where 
this varies)
Footnotes
Bank of Communications Co., Ltd.
19.03
2, 159
Barrowgate Limited
24.64
 
(15.53) 
160
BGF Group plc
24.62
161
Bud Financial Limited
4.50
4, 162
CANARA HSBC LIFE INSURANCE 
COMPANY LIMITED
26.00
163
Divido Financial Services Limited (In 
Administration)
7.85
164
Electronic Payment Services Company (Hong 
Kong) Limited
38.69
2, 19
Episode Six Inc.
5.69
4, 165
EPS Company (Hong Kong) Limited
38.69
19
HQLAX S.à r.l.
6.10
4, 90
HSBC Jintrust Fund Management Company 
Limited
49.00
2, 11, 166
HSBC UK Covered Bonds (LM) Limited
N/A
1,2, 167
Lightico Ltd
2.80
4, 85
LiquidityMatch LLC
N/A
1, 168
London Precious Metals Clearing Limited
30.00
2, 169
Marketnode PTE. Ltd.
12.60
4, 46
MENA Infrastructure Fund (GP) Ltd
33.33
170
Quantexa Limited
9.36
4, 99
Radiant Global Investors LLC
N/A
1, 2, 172
Saudi Awwal Bank
31.00
173
The London Gold Market Fixing Limited
N/A
1, 157
Threadneedle Software Holdings Limited
7.10
4, 174
Trade Information Network Limited
12.76
152
Trinkaus Europa Immobilien-Fonds Nr. 7 
Frankfurt Mertonviertel KG
N/A
182
We Trade Innovation Designated Activity 
Company (In Liquidation)
9.88
2, 130
Footnotes for Note 38
Description of shares
1
Where an entity is governed by voting rights, HSBC consolidates when 
it holds – directly or indirectly – the necessary voting rights to pass 
resolutions by the governing body. In all other cases, the assessment 
of control is more complex and requires judgement of other factors, 
including having exposure to variability of returns, power to direct 
relevant activities, and whether power is held as an agent or principal. 
HSBC’s consolidation policy is described in Note 1.2(a).
2
Management has determined that these undertakings are excluded 
from consolidation in the Group accounts as these entities do not meet 
the definition of subsidiaries in accordance with IFRS. HSBC’s 
consolidation policy is described in Note 1.2(a).
3
Directly held by HSBC Holdings plc
4
Preference Shares
5
Actions
6
Redeemable Preference Shares
7
GmbH Anteil
8
Nominal Shares
9
Parts
10
Non-Participating Voting
11
Registered Capital Shares
 
12
8 Canada Square, London, United Kingdom, E14 5HQ
13
Paseo de la Reforma 347 Col. Cuauhtemoc, Mexico, 06500
14
1 Centenary Square, Birmingham, United Kingdom, B1 1HQ
Registered offices
15
5 Donegal Square South, Northern Ireland, Belfast, United Kingdom, 
BT1 5JP
16
1909 Avenida Presidente Juscelino Kubitschek, 19° andar, Torre 
Norte, São Paulo Corporate Towers, São Paulo, Brazil, 04551-903
17
Arnold House St Julians Avenue, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 3NF
18
37 Front Street, Harbourview Centre, Ground Floor, Hamilton, 
Pembroke, Bermuda, HM 11
19
1 Queen's Road Central, Hong Kong
20
2401-55 24/F, Office Tower Two 1 Jianguomenwai Street, Chaoyang 
District, Beijing, China
21
First Floor, Xinhua Bookstore Xindong Road (SE of roundabout), 
Miyun District, Beijing, China
22
Oak House Hirzel Street, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 2NP
23
c/o Teneo Financial Advisory Limited, The Colmore Building, 20 
Colmore Circus, Queensway, Birmingham, United Kingdom, B4 6AT
24
239 Van Rensselaer Street,, Buffalo, New York, United States of 
America, 14210
25
c/o The Corporation Trust Company 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, 
Delaware, United States of America, 19801
26
Corporation Service Company 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, 
Delaware, United States of America, 19808
27
25/28 North Wall Quay, IFSC, Dublin 1, Leinster
28
No 1, Bei Huan East Road Dazu County, Chongqing, China
29
No 107 Ping Du Avenue (E), Sanhe Town, Fengdu County, 
Chongqing, China
30
No. 3, 5, 7, Haitang Erzhi Road Changyuan, Rongchang, Chongqing, 
China, 402460
31
c/o Walkers Corporate Services Limited, Walker House, 87 Mary 
Street, George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, KY1-9005
32
First & Second Floor No.3 Nanshan Road, Pulandian, Dalian, Liaoning, 
China
33
160 Mine Lake CT, Ste 200, Raleigh, North Carolina, United States of 
America, 27615-6417
34
38 avenue Kléber, Paris, France, 75116
35
Avenida de las Granjas 972, Building A, Floor 2, Colonia Santa 
Bárbara, Alcaldía Azcapotzalco, Mexico City, Mexico, 02230
36
No. 1 1211 Yanjiang Zhong Road, Yongan, Fujian, China
37
83 Des Voeux Road Central, Hong Kong
38
No. 44 Xin Ping Road Central, Encheng, Enping, Guangdong, China, 
529400
39
Room 311, Cheng Hui No. 2, Nan Sha Street, Nan Sha District, 
Guangzhou, Guangdong, China
40
34/F, 36/F and 46/F, Hang Seng Bank Tower 1000 Lujiazui Ring Road, 
Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, China, 200120
41
Gustav Mahlerplein 2 1082 MA, Amsterdam, Netherlands
42
1001 T2 Office Building, Qianhai Kerry Business Center, Qianhai 
Avenue, Nanshan Street, Qianhai Shenzhen-Hong Kong Cooperation 
Zone, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China
43
Unit 1 GF The Commerical Complex Madrigal Avenue, Ayala Alabang 
Village, Muntinlupa City, Philippines, 1780
44
C/O Teneo Financial Advisory Limited The Colmore Building, 20 
Colmore Circus, Queensway, Birmingham, United Kingdom, B4 6AT
45
Commerce House, Wickhams Cay 1, P.O. Box 3140, Road Town, 
Tortola, British Virgin Islands, VG1110
46
1 Harbourfront Avenue, #14-07 Keppel Bay Tower, Singapore, 098632
47
701 S CARSON ST STE 200, Carson City, Nevada, United States of 
America, 89701
48
HSBC House Esplanade, St. Helier, Jersey, JE4 8UB
49
Level 21 Menara IQ, Lingkaran TRX, Tun Razak Exchange, Kuala 
Lumpur, Malaysia, 55188
50
Level 19, Menara IQ, Lingkaran TRX, Tun Razak Exchange, Kuala 
Lumpur, Malaysia, 55188
51
10 Marina Boulevard #48-01 Marina Bay Financial Centre, Singapore, 
018983
52
52/60, M G Road Fort, Mumbai, India, 400 001
Registered offices
Notes on the financial statements
436
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

53
9-11 Floors, NESCO IT Park Building No. 3 Western Express 
Highway, Goregaon (East), Mumbai, India, 400063
54
HSBC Building 11-1, Nihonbashi 3-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo, Japan, 
103-0027
55
Immeuble Cœur Défense 110 esplanade du Général de Gaulle, 
Courbevoie, France, 92400
56
Level 36, Tower 1, International Towers Sydney, 100 Barangaroo 
Avenue, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia, 2000
57
Isidora Goyenechea 2800 23rd floor, Las Condes, Santiago, Chile, 
7550647
58
HSBC Building Shanghai ifc, 8 Century Avenue, Pudong, Shanghai, 
China, 200120
59
IconEbene, Level 5 Office 1 (West Wing), Rue de L’institut, Ebene, 
Mauritius
60
54F, 7 Xinyi Road Sec. 5 Xinyi district, Taipei, Taiwan
61
1266 Dr Luis Bonativa 1266 Piso 30 (Torre IV WTC), Montevideo, 
Uruguay, CP 11.000
62
Level 1, 2, 6 The Metropolitan, 235 Dong Khoi, Ben Nghe Ward, 
District 1, Ho Chi Minh, Vietnam
63
Esentepe Mah. Büyükdere Caddesi No.128 Şişli, Istanbul, Turkiye, 
34394
64
306 Corniche El Nil Street, Maadi, Cairo, Egypt
65
116 Archbishop Street, Valletta, Malta, VLT1444
66
Unit 401, Level 4 Gate Precinct Building 2, Dubai International 
Financial Centre, P. O. Box 30444, Dubai, United Arab Emirates
67
Majer Consulting, Office 54/44, Building A1, Residence Ryad Anfa, 
Boulevard Omar El Khayam, Casa Finance City (CFC), Casablanca, 
Morocco
68
1800 Tysons Boulevard Suite 50, Tysons, Virginia, United States of 
America, 22102
69
P.O. Box 309 Ugland House, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, 
KY1-1104
70
HSBC House Esplanade, St. Helier, Jersey, JE1 1HS
71
Room 2703, 27F, Tower A, No.8 Century Avenue, China (Shanghai) 
Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, China, 200120
72
c/o Rogers Capital St. Louis Business Centre, Cnr Desroches & St 
Louis Streets, Port Louis, Mauritius
73
49 avenue J.F. Kennedy, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, 1855
74
4-17/F, Office Tower 2 TaiKoo Hui Development, No. 381 Tian He 
Road, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China
75
Suite 1005, 10th Floor, Wisma Hamzah Kwong, Hing No. 1, Leboh 
Ampang, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, 50100
76
Building C-1 UP Ayala Technohub, Commonwealth Avenue,, Diliman, 
Quezon City, Metro Manila, Philippines
77
HSBC House Plot No.8 Survey No.64 (Part), Hightec City Layout 
Madhapur, Hyderabad, India, 500081
78
Mireka City 324/9 Havelock Road, Colombo 05, Sri Lanka, 00500
79
Smart Village 28th Km Cairo- Alexandria Desert Road Building, Cairo, 
Egypt
80
Centre Ville 1341 Building - 4th Floor Patriarche Howayek Street, PO 
Box Riad El Solh, Lebanon, 9597
81
Room 405 Odd House Number of 859-863, Huanhu West 1st Road, 
Lingang New Area, China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, 
China, 201306
82
Hansaallee 3, Düsseldorf, Germany, 40549
83
HSBC Main Building 1 Queen's Road Central, Hong Kong
84
80 Mill Street, Qormi, Malta, QRM 3101
85
121 HaHashmonaim St., Tel Aviv, Israel, 6713328
86
36F., No. 68 Sec. 5, Zhongxiao E. Rd., Xinyi Dist., Taipei City, Taiwan, 
110419
87
452 Fifth Avenue, New York, United States of America, NY10018
88
Mareva House 4 George Street, Nassau, Bahamas
89
150 King Street West, Suite 200, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, M5H 1J9
90
9 rue du Laboratoire, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Luxembourg, 
L-1911
Registered offices
91
4, rue Peternelchen, Howald, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, 
Luxembourg, L-2370
92
Alphabeta 14-18 Finsbury Square, London, United Kingdom, EC2A 
1BR
93
IConEbene Rue de L’institut, Ebene, Mauritius
94
Meeting Room 18.R005, 18/F Fortune Financial Center No. 5 
Dongsanhuan Zhong Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing, China, 100020
95
18th Floor Tower 1, HSBC Centre 1 Sham Mong Road, Kowloon, 
Hong Kong
96
37 Front Street, Harbourview Center, Ground Floor, Hamilton, 
Pembroke, Bermuda, HM 11
97
CT Corporation System 28 Liberty Street, New York, New York, 
United States of America, 10005
98
Unit 201, Floor 2, Building 3 No. 12, Anxiang Street, Shunyi District, 
Beijing, Beijing, China
99
C/O Company Secretarial Department, 280 Bishopsgate, London, 
United Kingdom, EC2M 4AG
100
300 Delaware Avenue Suite 1401, Wilmington, Delaware, United 
States of America, 19801
101
Woodbourne Hall, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands, P.O. Box 
916
102
Craigmuir Chambers, Road Town Tortola, British Virgin Islands, 
VG1110
103
52/60 M G Road Fort, Mumbai, India, 400 001
104
5/F HSBC Centre 3058 Fifth Ave West, Bonifacio Global City, Taguig 
City, Philippines
105
18 Boulevard de Kockelscheuer, Luxembourg, Luxembourg, 1821
106
Unit 2002 of 20/F, Unit 2101 of 21/F HSBC Building, 8 Century 
Avenue, China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, China, 
200120
107
Arnold House St Julians Avenue, St Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 1WA
108
HSBC Tower, Downtown Dubai, P O Box 66, Dubai, United Arab 
Emirates
109
Unit 401, Level 4, Gate Precinct Building 2, Dubai International 
Financial Centre, P. O. Box 506553, Dubai, United Arab Emirates
110
Level 16, HSBC Tower, Downtown Dubai, P.O. Box 66, Dubai, United 
Arab Emirates
111
HSBC Tower, Level 21, 188 Quay Street, Auckland, New Zealand, 
1010
112
The Corporation Trust Incorporated, 2405 York Road, Suite 201, 
Lutherville Timonium, Maryland, United States of America, 21093
113
HSBC House Esplanade, St. Helier, Jersey, JE1 1GT
114
9-17 Quai des Bergues, Geneva, Switzerland, 1201
115
1 Grand Canal Square, Grand Canal Harbour, Dublin 2, Ireland, D02 
P820
116
6th floor HSBC Centre 18, Cybercity, Ebene, Mauritius, 72201
117
Esentepe Mah. Büyükdere Caddesi No.128, 34394, Şişli, Istanbul, 
Turkiye
118
5 rue Heienhaff, Senningerberg, Luxembourg, L-1736
119
52/60 M G Road, Fort, Mumbai, India, 400 001
120
Unit 2201, 22/F, Qianhai Chow Tai Fook Finance Tower (Phase I) No. 
66 Shu Niu Avenue, Nanshan Subdistrict, the Shenzhen Qianhai 
Shenzhen-Hong Kong Cooperation Zone, the PRC, Shenzhen, China, 
518054
121
HSBC Building 7267 Olaya - Al Murrooj, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, 12283 2255
122
306 Corniche El Nil, HSBC Building, Maadi, Cairo, Egypt
123
1 Mutual Place, 107 Rivonia Road, Sandton, Gauteng, South Africa, 
2196
124
Kapelanka 42A, Krakow, Poland, 30-347
125
C T Corporation System 820 Bear Tavern Road, West Trenton, New 
Jersey, United States of America, 08628
126
22/F, Tower 2, Taikoo Hui Building, No. 381 Tianhe Road, Tianhe 
District, Guangzhou, China
127
Business Bay, Wing 2 Tower B, Survey no 103, Hissa no. 2, Airport 
road, Yerwada, Pune, India, 411006
Registered offices
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
437
Financial statements

--- PAGE BREAK ---

128
Room 3102, L31 HSBC Building, Shanghai ifc, 8 Century Avenue, 
China (Shanghai) Free Trade Zone, Shanghai, China, 200120
129
16 Boulevard d'Avranches, Luxembourg, L-1160
130
10 Earlsfort Terrace, Dublin, Ireland, D02 T380
131
No. 56 Yu Rong Street, Macheng, China, 438300
132
No. 205 Lie Shan Road Suizhou, Hubei, China
133
Building 3, Yin Zuo Di Jing Wan Tianmen New City, Tianmen, Hubei 
Province, China
134
RM101, 102 & 106 Sunshine Fairview, Sunshine Garden, Pedestrian 
Walkway, Pingjiang, China
135
Craigmuir Chambers, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands, 
VG1110
136
Kings Meadow Chester Business Park, Chester, United Kingdom, 
CH99 9FB
137
Level 15 HSBC Tower, Downtown Dubai, Dubai, United Arab 
Emirates, PO Box 66
138
De Entrée 201, Amsterdam, Netherlands, 1101 HG
139
World Trade Center 3, 9th Floor, Jalan Jendral Sudirman Kaveling 
29-31, Karet, Setiabudi, South Jakarta, DKI Jakarta, Indonesia, 12920
140
5th Floor, World Trade Center 1, Jl. Jend. Sudirman Kav. 29-31, 
Jakarta, Indonesia, 12920
141
No.198-2 Chengshan Avenue (E), Rongcheng, China, 264300
142
Room 601, 6/F Phase 1 Qianhai Chow Tai Fook Finance Tower, 66 
Shuniu Avenue, Nanshan Community, Qianhai Shenzhen-Hong Kong 
Corporation Zone, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China
143
Woodbourne Hall, Road Town, Tortola, British Virgin Islands, P.O. Box 
3162
144
1 Côte d'Eich, Luxembourg, 1450
145
P.O. Box 3119 Grand Pavilion, Hibiscus Way, 802 West Bay Road, 
Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, KY1 – 1205
146
17 Boulevard F.W Raiffeisen, Luxembourg, 2411
147
Tokyo Club Building 11F, 3-2-6 Kasumigaseki, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, 
Japan
148
27/F, Alexandra House, 18 Chater Road Central, Hong Kong
149
Unit 2017, Floor 20, Tower 1 No.288, Shimen 1st Road, Jing An 
District, Shanghai, China, 200041
150
10 Collyer Quay, #10-01 Ocean Financial Centre, Singapore, 
Singapore, 049315
151
RM 2112, HSBC Building, Shanghai ifc No. 8 Century Road, Pudong, 
Shanghai, China, 200120
152
3 More London Riverside, London, United Kingdom, SE1 2AQ
153
296, floor 18, office A Paseo de la Reforma, Mexico City, Mexico, 
06600
154
35 Ballards Lane, London, United Kingdom, N3 1XW
155
1 Raffles Quay #23-01, Singapore, 048583
156
c/o Mayfair Corporate Services Ltd., 26 Burnaby Street, Hamilton, 
Bermuda, HM11
157
27 Old Gloucester Street, London, United Kingdom, WC1N 3AX
158
All Saints Triangle Caledonian road, London, United Kingdom, N19UT
159
188 Yin Cheng Zhong Lu (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade Zone, China
160
50/F, Lee Garden One, 33 Hysan Avenue, Hong Kong
161
13-15 York Buildings, London, United Kingdom, WC2N 6JU
162
167-169 Great Portland Street, 5th Floor, London, United Kingdom, 
W1W 5PF
163
8th Floor Unit No. 808-814, Ambadeep Building, Plot No. 14, Kasturba 
Gandhi Marg, New Delhi, India, 110001
164
C/O Interpath Ltd, 10 Fleet Place, London, United Kingdom, EC4M 
7RB
165
251 Little Falls Drive, New Castle, Wilmington, United States of 
America, 19808
166
17F, HSBC Building, Shanghai ifc 8 Century Avenue, Pudong, 
Shanghai, China
167
10th Floor 5 Churchill Place, London, United Kingdom, E14 5HU
168
111 Town Square Place, Suite 840, Jersey City, New Jersey, United 
States of America, 07310
Registered offices
169
7th Floor, 62 Threadneedle Street, London, United Kingdom, EC2R 
8HP
170
Unit 306,307, 308, Gate Village Building 05, Dubai International 
Financial Centre, Dubai, United Arab Emirates
171
Gartenstrasse 26, Zurich, Switzerland, 8002
172
4482 Deer Ridge Road, Danville, CA, Delaware, United States of 
America, 94506
173
7383 King Fahad Branch Rd, 2338 - Al Yasmeen Dist., Riyadh, Saudi 
Arabia, 13325
174
2nd Floor, Regis House, 45 King William Street, London, United 
Kingdom, EC4R 9AN
175
Coeur Défense - 110, esplanade du Général de Gaulle - La Défense 4 
– 92400 Courbevoie
176
3 Dublin Landings, North Wall Quay, Dublin 1, Ireland
177
3, rue Jean Piret,L-2350 Luxembourg,Grand Duchy of Luxembourg
Registered offices
Notes on the financial statements
438
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Shareholder information
Contents
439
Fourth interim dividend for 2024
439
Interim dividends for 2025
439
Other equity instruments
440
2024 Annual General Meeting
440
Earnings releases and interim results
440
Shareholder enquiries and communications
440
Stock symbols
441
Investor relations
441
Where more information about HSBC is available
441
Taxation of shares and dividends
443
Approach to ESG reporting
451
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements
453
Certain defined terms
454
Abbreviations
 
This section gives important information for our shareholders, including contact information. It also includes an overview of key abbreviations 
and terminology used throughout the Annual Report and Accounts.
 A glossary of terms used in the Annual Report and Accounts can be found in the Investors section of www.hsbc.com.
Fourth interim dividend for 2024
The Directors have approved a fourth interim dividend for 2024 of $0.36 per ordinary share. Information on the currencies in which shareholders 
may elect to have the cash dividend paid can be viewed at www.hsbc.com/investors. The interim dividend will be paid in cash. The timetable for 
the interim dividend is:
Announcement 
19 February 2025
Shares quoted ex-dividend in London, Hong Kong and Bermuda 
6 March 2025
American Depositary Shares (‘ADS’) quoted ex-dividend in New York
7 March 2025
Record date – London, Hong Kong, New York, Bermuda1
7 March 2025
Mailing of Annual Report and Accounts 2024 and/or Strategic Report 2024
21 March 2025
Final date for dividend election changes including Investor Centre electronic instructions and revocations of standing instructions for dividend elections
10 April 2025
Exchange rate determined for payment of dividends in pounds sterling and Hong Kong dollars
14 April 2025
Payment date
25 April 2025
1
Removals to and from the Overseas Branch register of shareholders in Hong Kong or Bermuda will not be permitted on this date.
Interim dividends for 2025
As previously communicated, we established and achieved a target dividend payout ratio of 50% of earnings per ordinary share (‘EPS’) for 2023 
and 2024, excluding the special dividend. EPS for this purpose excludes material notable items and related impacts. Material notable items in 
2023 and 2024 included the sale of our businesses in Canada and Argentina, the sale of our retail banking operations in France, the gain 
following the acquisition of SVB UK and the impairment of our investment in BoCom. We also exclude HSBC Bank Canada‘s financial results 
from the 30 June 2022 net asset reference date until completion on 29 March 2024, as the gain on sale recognised through a combination of 
the consolidation of HSBC Bank Canada‘s results in the Group‘s results since this date, and the remaining gain on sale was recognised at 
completion, inclusive of the recycling of related reserves and fair value gains on related hedges.
The Board has adopted a dividend policy designed to provide sustainable cash dividends, while retaining the flexibility to invest and grow the 
business in the future, supplemented by additional shareholder distributions, if appropriate. The Board has established a target dividend payout 
ratio of 50% for 2025, subject to meeting capital requirements. 
Dividends are approved in US dollars and, at the election of the shareholder, paid in cash in one of, or in a combination of, US dollars, pounds 
sterling and Hong Kong dollars.
Other equity instruments
Additional tier 1 capital – contingent convertible securities
HSBC continues to issue contingent convertible securities that are included in its capital base as fully CRR II-compliant additional tier 1 capital 
securities. For further details on these securities, see Note 32 on the financial statements. 
HSBC Holdings issued SGD1,500m 5.250% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities on 14 June 2024. In addition, HSBC 
Holdings issued US$1,350m 6.875% and US$1,150m 6.950% perpetual subordinated contingent convertible securities on 11 September 2024.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
439
Additional information

--- PAGE BREAK ---

2024 Annual General Meeting
With the exception of the shareholder requisitioned Resolution 17, which the Board recommended that shareholders vote against, all 
resolutions considered at the 2024 AGM held at 11:00am on 3 May 2024 at InterContinental London O2, 1 Waterview Drive, London SE10 0TW, 
UK, were passed on a poll.
Earnings releases and interim results
First and third quarter results for 2025 will be released on 29 April 2025 and 28 October 2025, respectively. The interim results for the six 
months to 30 June 2025 will be issued on 30 July 2025. 
Shareholder enquiries and communications
Enquiries
Any enquiries relating to shareholdings on the share register (for example, transfers of shares, changes of name or address, lost share 
certificates or dividend cheques) should be sent to the Registrars at the address given below. The Registrars offer an online facility, Investor 
Centre, which enables shareholders to manage their shareholding electronically.
Principal Register:
Computershare Investor Services PLC
The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol, BS99 6ZZ, 
United Kingdom
Telephone: +44 (0) 370 702 0137
www.investorcentre.co.uk/contactus
Investor Centre: www.investorcentre.co.uk
Hong Kong Overseas Branch 
Register:
Computershare Hong Kong Investor Services Limited
Rooms 1712–1716, 17th Floor Hopewell Centre, 183 
Queen’s Road East, Hong Kong
Telephone: +852 2862 8555 
hsbc.ecom@computershare.com.hk
Investor Centre: www.investorcentre.com/hk
Bermuda Overseas Branch Register:
Investor Relations Team
HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited, 37 Front Street, 
Hamilton, HM 11, Bermuda
hbbm.shareholder.services@hsbc.bm
Investor Centre: www.investorcentre.com/bm
ADS Depositary:
The Bank of New York Mellon
Shareowner Services, P.O. Box 43006, Providence RI 
02940-3078, USA
Telephone (US): +1 877 283 5786
Telephone (International): +1 201 680 6825 
shrrelations@cpushareownerservices.com
 
If your shareholding is not recorded directly on the share register, it is important to remember that your main contact for all matters relating to 
your investment remains the registered shareholder, or custodian or broker, who administers the investment on your behalf. This is the case 
even if you have elected to receive information rights directly from HSBC Holdings. Any changes or queries relating to your personal details and 
holding (including any administration of it) should be directed to your existing contact at your investment manager or custodian or broker. HSBC 
Holdings cannot guarantee dealing with matters directed to it in error.
Shareholders who wish to receive a hard copy of the Annual Report and Accounts 2024 should contact HSBC’s Registrars. Please visit 
www.hsbc.com/investors/investor-contacts for further information. You can also download an online version of the report from www.hsbc.com.
Electronic communications
Shareholders may at any time choose to receive corporate communications in printed form or to receive notifications of their availability on 
HSBC’s website. To receive notifications of the availability of a corporate communication on HSBC’s website by email, or revoke or amend an 
instruction to receive such notifications by email, go to www.hsbc.com/investors/shareholder-information/manage-your-shareholding. If you 
received a notification of the availability of this document on HSBC’s website and would like to receive a printed copy, or if you would like to 
receive future corporate communications in printed form, please write or send an email (quoting your shareholder reference number) to the 
appropriate Registrars at the address given above. Printed copies will be provided without charge.
Chinese translation
A Chinese translation of the Annual Report and Accounts 2024 will be available upon request after 21 March 2025 from the Registrars (contact 
details above). Please also contact the Registrars if you wish to receive Chinese translations of future documents, or if you have received a 
Chinese translation of this document and do not wish to receive them in future.
《2024 年報及賬目》備有中譯本，各界人士可於2025年3月21日之後，向上列股份登記處索閱。
閣下如欲於日後收取相關文件的中譯本，或已收到本文件的中譯本但不希望繼續收取有關譯本，均請聯絡股份登記處。
Stock symbols
HSBC Holdings ordinary shares trade under the following stock symbols:
London Stock Exchange
HSBA*
New York Stock Exchange (ADS)
HSBC
Hong Kong Stock Exchange
5
Bermuda Stock Exchange
HSBC.BH
∗ HSBC’s Primary market
Additional information
440
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Investor relations
Enquiries relating to HSBC’s strategy or operations may be directed to:
Neil Sankoff, Global Head of Investor Relations
Yafei Tian, Head of Investor Relations, Asia-Pacific
HSBC Holdings plc
The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking
8 Canada Square
Corporation Limited
London E14 5HQ
1 Queen’s Road Central
United Kingdom
Hong Kong
Telephone: +44 (0) 20 7991 5072
Telephone: +852 2899 8909
Email: investorrelations@hsbc.com
Email: investorrelations@hsbc.com.hk
Where more information about HSBC is available
The Annual Report and Accounts 2024 and other information on HSBC may be downloaded from HSBC’s website: www.hsbc.com.
Reports, statements and information that HSBC Holdings files with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available at www.sec.gov. 
Investors can also request hard copies of these documents upon payment of a duplicating fee by writing to the SEC at the Office of Investor 
Education and Advocacy, 100 F Street N.E., Washington, DC 20549-0213 or by emailing PublicInfo@sec.gov. Investors should call the 
Commission at (1) 202 551 8090 if they require further assistance. Investors may also obtain the reports and other information that HSBC 
Holdings files at www.nyse.com (telephone number (1) 212 656 3000).
HM Treasury has transposed the requirements set out under CRD IV and issued the Capital Requirements Country-by-Country Reporting 
Regulations 2013. The legislation requires HSBC Holdings to publish additional information in respect of the year ended 31 December 2024 by 
31 December 2025. This information will be available on HSBC’s website: www.hsbc.com/tax.
Taxation of shares and dividends
Taxation – UK residents
The following is a summary, under current law (unless otherwise 
noted) and the current published practice of HM Revenue and 
Customs (‘HMRC’), of certain UK tax considerations that are likely to 
be material to the ownership and disposition of HSBC Holdings 
ordinary shares. The summary does not purport to be a 
comprehensive description of all the tax considerations that may be 
relevant to a holder of shares. In particular, the summary deals with 
shareholders who are resident solely in the UK for UK tax purposes 
and only with holders who hold the shares as investments and who 
are the beneficial owners of the shares, and does not address the tax 
treatment of certain classes of holders such as dealers in securities. 
Holders and prospective purchasers should consult their own 
advisers regarding the tax consequences of an investment in shares 
in light of their particular circumstances, including the effect of any 
national, state or local laws.
Taxation of dividends
Currently, no tax is withheld from dividends paid by HSBC Holdings.
UK resident individuals
UK resident individuals are generally entitled to a tax-free annual 
allowance in respect of dividends received. The amount of the 
allowance for the tax year beginning 6 April 2024 is £500. To the 
extent that dividend income received by an individual in the relevant 
tax year does not exceed the allowance, a nil tax rate will apply. 
Dividend income in excess of this allowance will be taxed at 8.75% 
for basic rate taxpayers, 33.75% for higher rate taxpayers and 
39.35% for additional rate taxpayers. 
UK resident companies 
Shareholders that are within the charge to UK corporation tax should 
generally be entitled to an exemption from UK corporation tax on any 
dividends received from HSBC Holdings. However, the exemptions 
are not comprehensive and are subject to anti-avoidance rules.
If the conditions for exemption are not met or cease to be satisfied, 
or a shareholder within the charge to UK corporation tax elects for an 
otherwise exempt dividend to be taxable, the shareholder will be 
subject to UK corporation tax on dividends received from HSBC 
Holdings at the rate of corporation tax applicable to that shareholder. 
Taxation of capital gains
The computation of the capital gains tax liability arising on disposals 
of shares in HSBC Holdings by shareholders subject to UK tax on 
capital gains can be complex, partly depending on whether, for 
example, the shares were purchased since April 1991, acquired in 
1991 in exchange for shares in The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation Limited, or acquired subsequent to 1991 in exchange for 
shares in other companies.
For capital gains tax purposes, the acquisition cost for ordinary shares 
is adjusted to take account of subsequent rights and capitalisation 
issues. Any capital gain arising on a disposal of shares in HSBC 
Holdings by a UK company may also be adjusted to take account of 
indexation allowance if the shares were acquired before 1 January 
2018, although the level of indexation allowance that is given in 
calculating the gain would be frozen at the value that would have 
been applied to a disposal of those shares in December 2017. If in 
doubt, shareholders are recommended to consult their professional 
advisers.
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax
Transfers of shares by a written instrument of transfer generally will 
be subject to UK stamp duty at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration 
paid for the transfer (rounded up to the next £5), and such stamp duty 
is generally payable by the transferee. An agreement to transfer 
shares, or any interest therein, normally will give rise to a charge to 
stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 0.5% of the consideration. 
However, provided an instrument of transfer of the shares is 
executed pursuant to the agreement and duly stamped before the 
date on which the stamp duty reserve tax becomes payable, under 
the current published practice of HMRC it will not be necessary to 
pay the stamp duty reserve tax, nor to apply for such tax to be 
cancelled. Stamp duty reserve tax is generally payable by the 
transferee.
Paperless transfers of shares within CREST, the UK’s paperless share 
transfer system, are liable to stamp duty reserve tax at the rate of 
0.5% of the consideration. In CREST transactions, the tax is 
calculated and payment made automatically. Deposits of shares into 
CREST generally will not be subject to stamp duty reserve tax, unless 
the transfer into CREST is itself for consideration.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
441
Additional information

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Taxation – US residents
The following is a summary, under current law, of the principal UK tax 
and US federal income tax considerations that are likely to be material 
to the ownership and disposition of shares or American Depositary 
Shares (‘ADSs’) by a holder that is a US holder, as defined below, and 
who is not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes.
The summary does not purport to be a comprehensive description of 
all of the tax considerations that may be relevant to a holder of shares 
or ADSs. In particular, the summary deals only with US holders that 
hold shares or ADSs as capital assets, and does not address the tax 
treatment of holders that are subject to special tax rules. These 
include banks, tax-exempt entities, insurance companies, dealers in 
securities or currencies, persons that hold shares or ADSs as part of 
an integrated investment (including a ‘straddle’ or ‘hedge’) comprised 
of a share or ADS and one or more other positions, and persons that 
own directly or indirectly 10% or more (by vote or value) of the stock 
of HSBC Holdings. This discussion is based on laws, treaties, judicial 
decisions and regulatory interpretations in effect on the date hereof, 
all of which are subject to change.
For the purposes of this discussion, a ‘US holder’ is a beneficial 
holder that is a citizen or resident of the United States, a US domestic 
corporation or otherwise is subject to US federal income taxes on a 
net income basis in respect thereof.
Holders and prospective purchasers should consult their own 
advisers regarding the tax consequences of an investment in shares 
or ADSs in light of their particular circumstances, including the effect 
of any national, state or local laws.
Any US federal tax advice included in the Annual Report and 
Accounts 2024 is for informational purposes only. It was not intended 
or written to be used, and cannot be used, for the purpose of 
avoiding US federal tax penalties.
Taxation of dividends
Currently, no tax is withheld from dividends paid by HSBC Holdings. 
For US tax purposes, a US holder must include cash dividends paid 
on the shares or ADSs in ordinary income on the date that such 
holder or the ADS depositary receives them, translating dividends 
paid in UK pounds sterling into US dollars using the exchange rate in 
effect on the date of receipt. A US holder that elects to receive 
shares in lieu of a cash dividend must include in ordinary income the 
fair market value of such shares on the dividend payment date, and 
the tax basis of those shares will equal such fair market value.
Subject to certain exceptions for positions that are held for less than 
61 days, and subject to a foreign corporation being considered a 
‘qualified foreign corporation’ (which includes not being classified for 
US federal income tax purposes as a passive foreign investment 
company), certain dividends (‘qualified dividends’) received by an 
individual US holder generally will be subject to US taxation at 
preferential rates. 
Based on the company’s audited financial statements and relevant 
market and shareholder data, HSBC Holdings does not believe that it 
was a passive investment company for its 2024 taxable year and 
does not anticipate becoming a passive foreign investment company 
in 2025 or the foreseeable future. Accordingly, dividends paid on the 
shares or ADSs generally should be eligible for qualified dividends 
treatment.
Taxation of capital gains
Gains realised by a US holder on the sale or other disposition of 
shares or ADSs normally will not be subject to UK taxation unless at 
the time of the sale or other disposition the holder carries on a trade, 
profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or agency or 
permanent establishment and the shares or ADSs are or have been 
used, held or acquired for the purposes of such trade, profession, 
vocation, branch or agency or permanent establishment. Such gains 
will be included in income for US tax purposes, and will be long-term 
capital gains if the shares or ADSs were held for more than one year. 
A long-term capital gain realised by an individual US holder generally 
will be subject to US tax at preferential rates.
Inheritance tax
Shares or ADSs held by an individual whose domicile is determined 
to be the US for the purposes of the United States–United Kingdom 
Double Taxation Convention relating to estate and gift taxes (the 
‘Estate Tax Treaty’) and who is not for such purposes a national of 
the UK will not, provided any US federal estate or gift tax chargeable 
has been paid, be subject to UK inheritance tax on the individual’s 
death or on a lifetime transfer of shares or ADSs except in certain 
cases where the shares or ADSs (i) are comprised in a settlement 
(unless, at the time of the settlement, the settlor was domiciled in 
the US and was not a national of the UK), (ii) are part of the business 
property of a UK permanent establishment of an enterprise, or (iii) 
pertain to a UK fixed base of an individual used for the performance 
of independent personal services. In such cases, the Estate Tax 
Treaty generally provides a credit against US federal tax liability for 
the amount of any tax paid in the UK in a case where the shares or 
ADSs are subject to both UK inheritance tax and to US federal estate 
or gift tax.
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax – 
ADSs
If shares are transferred to a clearance service or American 
Depositary Receipt (‘ADR’) issuer (which will include a transfer of 
shares to the depositary) UK stamp duty and/or stamp duty reserve 
tax will be payable unless the transfer is, or is treated as being, in the 
course of a capital raising arrangement. The stamp duty or stamp 
duty reserve tax is generally payable on the consideration for the 
transfer (or, if there is no consideration in money or money’s worth, 
the value of the shares being transferred) and is payable at the 
aggregate rate of 1.5%.
The amount of stamp duty reserve tax payable on such a transfer will 
be reduced by any stamp duty paid in connection with the same 
transfer.
No stamp duty will be payable on the transfer of, or agreement to 
transfer, an ADS, provided that the ADR and any separate instrument 
of transfer or written agreement to transfer remain at all times 
outside the UK, and provided further that any such transfer or written 
agreement to transfer is not executed in the UK. No stamp duty 
reserve tax will be payable on a transfer of, or agreement to transfer, 
an ADS effected by the transfer of an ADR.
US information reporting and backup 
withholding tax
Distributions made on shares or ADSs and proceeds from the sale of 
shares or ADSs that are paid within the US, or through certain 
financial intermediaries to US holders, are subject to US information 
reporting and may be subject to a US ‘backup’ withholding tax. 
General exceptions to this rule happen when the US holder: 
establishes that it is a corporation (other than an S corporation) or 
other exempt holder; or provides a correct taxpayer identification 
number, certifies that no loss of exemption from backup withholding 
has occurred and otherwise complies with the applicable 
requirements of the backup withholding rules. Holders that are not 
US persons (as defined in the US Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as 
amended) generally are not subject to US information reporting or 
backup withholding tax, but may be required to comply with 
applicable certification procedures to establish that they are not US 
persons in order to avoid the application of such US information 
reporting requirements or backup withholding tax to payments 
received within the US or through certain financial intermediaries.
Additional information
442
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Approach to ESG reporting
The information set out in the ESG review on pages 41 to 84, taken 
together with other information relating to ESG issues included in this 
Annual Report and Accounts 2024, aims to provide key ESG 
information and data relevant to our operations for the year ended 
31 December 2024. The data is compiled for the financial year 
1 January to 31 December 2024 unless otherwise specified. 
Measurement techniques and calculations are explained next to data 
tables where necessary. There are no significant changes from the 
previous reporting period in terms of scope, boundary or 
measurement of our reporting of ESG matters. Where relevant, 
rationale is provided for any restatement of information or data that 
has been previously published. 
How we decide what to measure
We listen to our stakeholders in a number of different ways, which 
we set out in more detail within the ‘ESG overview’ on page 16. We 
use the information they provide us to identify the issues that are 
most important to them and consequently also matter to our own 
business. Our ESG Committee and other relevant governance bodies 
regularly discuss the new and existing themes and issues that matter 
to our stakeholders. Our management team then uses this insight, 
alongside the framework of the ESG Guide (which refers to our 
obligations under the Environmental, Social and Governance 
Reporting Guide contained in Appendix C2 to The Rules Governing 
the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong 
Limited), and the UKLR 6.6.6R(8) of the Financial Conduct Authority’s 
(‘FCA’) Listing Rules, Sections 414CA and 414CB of the UK 
Companies Act 2006, and other applicable laws and regulations to 
choose what we measure and publicly report in our ESG review. We 
will continue to develop and refine our reporting and disclosures on 
ESG matters in line with feedback received from our investors and 
other stakeholders, and in view of our obligations under the ESG 
Guide and the FCA’s Listing Rules.
Under the ESG Guide, ’materiality’ is considered to be the threshold 
at which ESG issues become sufficiently important to our investors 
and other stakeholders that they should be publicly reported. Our 
approach to materiality also considers disclosure standards and other 
applicable rules and regulations as part of our materiality assessment 
for specific ESG topics and relevant disclosures.
Given ongoing developments in the ESG regulatory environment 
across various jurisdictions in which we operate, combined with the 
relative immaturity of processes, systems, data quality and controls, 
our focus remains on supporting a globally consistent set of 
mandatory sustainability standards. We aim to continue to evolve our 
reporting to recognise market developments, such as the 
International Sustainability Standards Board (‘ISSB’) or the Corporate 
Sustainability Reporting Directive (‘CSRD’), and support the efforts to 
harmonise the disclosures. In this Annual Report and Accounts 2024, 
we continue to report against the core World Economic Forum 
(‘WEF’), Stakeholder Capitalism Metrics and Sustainability Accounting 
Standards Board (‘SASB’) metrics, and will continue to review our 
approach as the regulatory landscape evolves. 
Consistent with the scope of financial information presented in our 
Annual Report and Accounts, the ESG review covers the operations 
of HSBC Holdings plc and its subsidiaries. Given the relative 
immaturity of ESG-related data and methodologies in general, we are 
on a journey towards improving completeness and robustness.
 For further details of our material ESG topics, see ‘Engaging with our 
stakeholders and our material ESG topics’ on page 16.
Our reporting around ESG
We report on ESG matters throughout our Annual Report and 
Accounts 2024, including the ’ESG overview’ section of the Strategic 
Report (pages 15 to 19), ESG review (pages 41 to 84), and the 
‘Climate risk’ and ‘Insights from climate scenario analysis’ sections of 
the Risk review (pages 219 to 228). In addition, we have other 
supplementary materials, including our ESG Data Pack, which 
provides a more granular breakdown of ESG information.
Detailed data
Additional reports
ESG Data Pack 2024, 
including SASB Index 
2024 and WEF Index 
2024
UK Pay Gap Report 2024
Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement 
2024
Green Bond Report 2024
HSBC UN Sustainable Development Goals Bond 
Report 2024
 
 For further details of our supplementary materials, see our ESG reporting 
centre at www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/esgreporting-centre.
ESG Guide
We comply with the ‘comply or explain’ provisions in the ESG Guide, 
save for certain items, which we describe in more detail below:
–
A1(b) on relevant laws/regulations relating to air and greenhouse 
gas emissions, discharges into water and land, and generation of 
hazardous and non-hazardous waste, and on emissions: taking into 
account the nature of our business, we do not believe that there 
are relevant laws and regulations in these areas that have 
significant impacts on our operations. Nevertheless, we are fully 
compliant with our publication of information regarding scope 1 
and 2 carbon emissions, while we only partially publish 
information on scope 3 carbon emissions, as the data required for 
that publication is not yet fully available. 
–
A1.3 on total hazardous waste produced, A1.4 on total nonhazardous waste produced: Taking into account the nature of our 
business, we do not consider hazardous waste to be a material 
issue for our stakeholders. As such, we report only on total waste 
produced, which includes hazardous and non-hazardous waste.
–
A1.6 on handling hazardous and non-hazardous waste: Taking into 
account the nature of our business, we do not consider this to be 
a material issue for our stakeholders. Notwithstanding this, we 
continue to focus on the reduction and recycling of all waste. 
Building on the success of our previous operational environmental 
strategy, we are continuing to seek to identify key opportunities 
where we can lessen our wider environmental impact, including 
waste management. For further details, please see our ESG 
review on page 58.
–
A2.4 on sourcing water issue and water efficiency target: Taking 
into account the nature of our business, we do not consider this to 
be a material issue for our stakeholders. Notwithstanding this, we 
have implemented measures to further reduce water consumption 
through the installation of flow restrictors, auto-taps and low or 
zero flush sanitary fittings and continue to track our water 
consumption.
–
A2.5 on packaging material, B6(b) on issues related to health and 
safety and labelling relating to products and services provided, 
B6.1 on percentage of total products sold or shipped subject to 
recalls for safety and health reasons and B6.4 in recall procedures: 
Taking into account the nature of our business, we do not 
consider these to be material issues for our stakeholders.
This is aligned with the materiality reporting principle that is set out in 
the ESG Guide. See ‘How we decide what to measure’ for further 
information on how we determine what matters are material to our 
stakeholders.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
443
Additional information

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’)
As noted on page 18, we have considered our ‘comply or explain’ obligation under both UKLR 6.6.6(8) of the Financial Conduct Authority’s 
(‘FCA’) Listing Rules and Sections 414CA and 414CB of the UK Companies Act 2006. We perform an assessment to ascertain the appropriate 
level of detail to be included in the climate-related financial disclosures that are set out in our Annual Report and Accounts, as part of 
considering what to measure and publicly report. Our assessment takes into account factors such as the level of our exposure to climaterelated risks and opportunities, the scope and objectives of our climate-related strategy, transitional challenges, and the nature, size and 
complexity of our business. See ‘How we decide what to measure’ for further information.
We confirm that we have made disclosures consistent with 11 TCFD Recommendations and Recommended Disclosures, including its annexes 
and supplemental guidance, which we summarise in the table below:
Recommendation
Response
Disclosure 
location
Governance
a) Describe the Board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities (Companies Act 2006 - Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (a))
Process, frequency and 
training
– The Board takes overall responsibility for ESG strategy, overseeing executive management in developing the 
approach, execution and associated reporting. ESG strategies were considered at eight Board meetings during the 
year.
 Pages 74
 and 253 
– Board members receive ESG-related training as part of their induction and ongoing development, and seek out further 
opportunities to build their skills and experience in this area.
 Page 74
Sub-committee 
accountability, 
processes and 
frequency
– The Group Audit Committee (‘GAC’) considered ESG and climate reporting matters at six meetings during 2024. 
Furthermore, as an area of expanded assurance, the GAC, supported by the executive-level ESG Committee, provided 
close oversight of the disclosure risks in relation to sustainability and climate reporting, amid rising stakeholder 
expectations. The work will continue throughout 2025 in partnership with the Sustainability Working Group.
 Page 264
– The Group Risk Committee (‘GRC’) remained focused on climate risk and greenwashing risk. The GRC received reports 
on climate risk management and sustainability risk policies, while maintaining oversight of delivery plans and risk appetite 
breaches to help ensure that the Group continues to develop and maintains robust climate risk management capabilities. 
Reputation risk considerations have also formed part of these discussions. It considered climate risk at four meetings in 
2024.
 Pages 272
 and 275
– The diagram on page 74 provides an illustration of our ESG governance process, including how the Board’s strategy 
on climate is cascaded and implemented throughout the organisation. It identifies examples of forums that manage 
both climate-related opportunities and risks, along with their responsibilities and the responsible chair. 
 Page 74
Examples of the Board 
and relevant Board 
committees taking 
climate into account
– The Board has overall responsibility for ESG strategy, overseeing executive management in developing the approach, 
execution, and associated reporting.
 Page 251 
– We enhanced our ESG governance with the establishment of a new Sustainability Working Group (‘SWG’) of the HSBC 
Holdings Board. This working group has an initial remit to provide oversight and guidance in relation to the Group’s 
sustainability activities, including the targets and timelines set out in the net zero transition plan, key sustainability risk 
policies and communication with key stakeholder groups.
 Pages 22
 and 74
 
– In 2024, the Board oversaw the implementation of ESG strategy through regular dashboard reports and detailed 
updates including: review and approval of the net zero transition plan; deep dives on the sustainability execution 
programme; and updates on human rights.
 Page 251
b) Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities (Companies Act 2006 - Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (a))
Who manages climaterelated risks and 
opportunities
– The Sustainability Working Group, established in 4Q24, oversees and provides guidance on the Group-wide medium 
and longer-term sustainability strategy. The ESG Committee has oversight of ESG strategy, policy, material 
commitments and external disclosure. It is co-chaired by the Group CEO and the Group Chief Sustainability Officer.
 Page 220
– The Group Chief Risk and Compliance Officer is the senior manager responsible for the management of climate risk 
under the UK Senior Managers Regime, holding overall accountability for the Group’s climate risk programme.
 Page 220
How management 
reports to the Board
– The Board delegates day-to-day management of the business and implementation of strategy to the Group CEO. During the 
year, the incumbent Group CEO was supported in his management of the Group by recommendations and advice from the 
Group Executive Committee (’GEC’), an executive forum comprising members of senior management that include chief 
executive officers of the global businesses and regions, as well as functional heads.
 Page 247 
– During the year, the Board also oversaw the rationalisation of the ESG Committee and Sustainability Execution 
Committee into a single governance body (named the ESG Committee). These Board and executive level governance 
forums support senior management in the operationalisation of the Group’s sustainability strategy, through the oversight 
of the sustainability execution programme. For further details see page 74.
 Page 251
Processes used to 
inform management
– The Group Risk Management Meeting oversees the enterprise-wide management of all risks, including updates 
relating to the Group’s climate risk profile and risk appetite, top and emerging climate risks, and key climate initiatives.
 Page 74
Strategy
a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organisation has identified over the short, medium and long term (Companies Act 2006 Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (d))
Processes used to 
determine material 
risks and opportunities
– When assessing our long-term scenarios, climate-related losses are expected to remain minimal in the short term and 
likely to increase in the medium and longer time horizon, driven by the transition to a net zero economy and greater 
physical risk impacts.
 Page 224
– Our models continue to incorporate a range of climate-specific metrics that could potentially impact our customers, 
including expected production volumes, revenue, costs and capital expenditure.
 Page 224
Relevant short-, 
medium-, and long-term 
time horizons
– Our annual climate risk materiality assessment helps us to understand how climate risk may impact HSBC’s risk 
taxonomy. The assessment considers short-term (up to 2026), medium-term (2027-2035) and long-term (2036-2050) 
periods.
 Page 219
Additional information
444
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
TCFD

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) continued
Recommendation
Response
Disclosure 
location
Transition or physical 
climate-related issues 
identified
– We aim to help our customers transition to net zero and a sustainable future by providing and facilitating between 
$750bn and $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030. Our Sustainable Finance and Investment Data 
Dictionary 2024 includes a detailed definition of contributing activities.
 Page 45
– For transition risk, we have metrics in place to monitor the exposure of our wholesale corporate lending portfolio to six 
high transition risk sectors. As at 31 December 2024, the overall exposure to six high transition risk sectors was 18% of 
total gross carrying amount of wholesale loans and advances. Our relationship managers engage with our key wholesale 
customers, including those in higher transition risk sectors, through a transition engagement questionnaire (‘TEQ’). In 
2024, the TEQ was expanded to cover all geographies. The TEQ helps to gather information and assess our wholesale 
customers’ business model alignment to a net zero transition and their exposure to physical and transition risks.
 Page 221
– The impact on our wholesale portfolios is demonstrated by the table on page 225 which shows the size of exposures by 
sector in 2024 and the cumulative change in ECL compared with a counterfactual scenario (expressed as a multiple). 
The size of our exposure in each sector is represented by our exposure at default (‘EAD’) relative to one another.
 Page 225
– The table on page 227 demonstrates the impact on our commercial real estate (‘CRE’) portfolio for specific markets, 
including the three biggest markets – Hong Kong, the UK and the US. This shows the increase in cumulative ECL over 
different time horizons, under each scenario, compared with a counterfactual scenario (expressed as a multiple).
 Page 227
– We measure the impacts of climate and weather events on our buildings on an ongoing basis using historical, current 
and scenario-modelled forecast data. In 2024, there were 40 major storms that had a minor impact on three of our 
buildings.
 Page 228
Risks and 
opportunities by 
sector and/or 
geography
– For transition risk, we have metrics in place to monitor the exposure of our wholesale corporate lending portfolio to six 
high transition risk sectors. These are automotive, chemicals, construction, contracting & building materials, metals and 
mining, oil and gas, and power and utilities.
 Page 221
– Within our mortgage portfolios, properties or areas with potentially heightened physical risk are identified and assessed 
locally with exposure monitored using risk indicators. A reduction in property value, higher insurance costs and insurance 
availability are potential future negative financial impacts for properties with higher physical risk. Geographically, for the 
UK lending balances, our highest flood risk exposures are the Greater London and South-East regions.
 Page 221
– Development of clean power generation is critical to achieving net zero. We supported Abu Dhabi Future Energy 
Company (Masdar) towards its equity commitments on new greenfield projects in renewable energy and energy 
efficiency, by acting as joint lead manager and bookrunner in raising $1bn through its second green bond issuance.
 Page 46
– We aim to help our customers transition to net zero and a sustainable future by providing and facilitating between 
$750bn and $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030. Additional detailed information on our sustainable 
finance and investment progress can be found in the ESG Data Pack.
 Page 45
Concentrations of 
credit exposure to 
carbon-related assets 
(supplemental 
guidance for banks)
– We report our exposure to the six high transition risk sectors in the wholesale portfolio, which are automotive, 
chemicals, construction, contracting & building materials, metals and mining, oil and gas, and power and utilities. For 
details, see the ESG Data Pack.
 Page 221
– We monitor the energy performance certificate (‘EPC’) ratings of individual properties from A (highest efficiency) through 
to G (least efficient) as EPCs are commonly used as an indicator of transition risk in the UK mortgage book.
 Page 221
Climate-related risks 
(transition and 
physical) in lending 
and other financial 
intermediary business 
activities 
(supplemental 
guidance for banks)
– Our material exposure to climate risk relates to wholesale and retail client financing activity within our banking portfolio.
 Page 60
– We are also exposed to climate risk in relation to asset ownership by our insurance business and employee pension 
plans.
 Page 60
– HSBC Asset Management recognises that climate-related risks may impact the operational and financial performance of 
investee companies. The impact of these risks will vary depending on characteristics such as asset class, sector, 
business model and geography. HSBC Asset Management continues to integrate climate analysis into its actively 
managed product offerings and seeks to assess climate-related risks that could impact investment performance, where 
applicable and relevant.
 Page 60
– Our relationship managers engage with our key wholesale customers, including those in higher transition risk sectors, 
through a transition engagement questionnaire (‘TEQ’). In 2024, the TEQ was expanded to cover all geographies. The 
TEQ helps to gather information and assess our wholesale customers’ business model alignment to a net zero transition 
and their exposure to physical and transition risks. We use the responses to the questionnaire to risk-assess our key 
wholesale customers.
 Page 221
– Under the Current Commitments scenario, our modelled outputs predict that ECL will not be more than 25% higher than the 
counterfactual scenario for any of the assessed sectors. The highest impacts are seen in the chemicals, construction and 
building materials, power and utilities and agriculture and soft commodities sectors. Greater climate risks would crystallise 
in the Below 2 Degrees scenario with its gradually increasing transition to net zero, driven by pockets of customers in higheremitting sectors that are continuously exposed to larger climate-related losses.
 Page 225
– The UK is our largest mortgage market, and as of November 2024, made up 46.7% of our global mortgage portfolio. Our 
ESG Data Pack includes our climate risk exposures for this portfolio across regions. The maturity profile of the UK mortgage 
book shows that the average remaining contractual term in the UK is 21.8 years. This means our strategic approach to 
climate risk considers both present day risk and long-term forward-looking risk, given that customers may choose to remain 
with us over the lifespan of the loan. For the UK mortgage book, flood data is available for 93.7% of the mortgage book of 
which 0.9% is at a very high risk of flooding, with 2.7% of the book at a high risk of flooding.
 Page 221
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
445
Additional information

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) continued
Recommendation
Response
Disclosure 
location
b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisation’s businesses, strategy and financial planning (Companies Act 2006 
- Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (e))
Impact on strategy, 
business, and 
financial planning
– We aim to help our customers transition to net zero and a sustainable future by providing and facilitating between $750bn 
and $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030.
 Page 42
– Climate scenario analysis supports our strategy by assessing our potential exposures to risks and vulnerabilities under a range 
of climate scenarios. It is one of the key tools used to support the evaluation of portfolios in line with our net zero ambition. 
Our 2024 scenarios considered the key regions in which we operate and were designed to assess the impact on our balance 
sheet across three distinct periods: short term up to 2026; medium term from 2027 to 2035; and long term from 2036 to 
2050.
 Page 223
– From a financial and capital planning perspective, we use climate scenario analysis to support the Group’s internal capital 
adequacy assessment process (‘ICAAP’) to understand the amount of capital the Group should hold to meet identified 
climate risks, including integration of climate impacts into the Group’s internal stress testing exercises.
 Page 223
– We have assessed the impact of climate risk on our balance sheet and have concluded that no incremental adjustments were 
needed to capture climate impacts in our financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2024.
 Page 43
– We have used climate scenarios to inform our organisation’s business, strategy and financial planning. In 2024, we 
continued to incorporate certain aspects of sustainable finance within our financial planning process.
– We do not fully disclose impacts from climate-related opportunities on financial planning and performance including on 
revenue, costs and the balance sheet, quantitative scenario analysis, detailed climate risk exposures for all sectors and 
geographies or physical risk metrics. This is due to transitional challenges in relation to data limitations, although nascent 
work is ongoing in these areas. We expect these data limitations to be addressed in the medium term as more reliable 
data becomes available and technology solutions are implemented.
Impact on products 
and services
– We aim to help our customers transition to net zero and a sustainable future by providing and facilitating between $750bn 
and $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030.
 Page 45
– Thermal coal mining: In 2021, absolute on-balance sheet financed emissions decreased by 71% to 1.38 Mt CO2e relative 
to the re-baselined 2020 figure. In 2022, the absolute on-balance sheet financed emissions of our portfolio decreased by 
69% to 1.44 Mt CO2e relative to the re-baselined 2020 figure, and they rose by 4% from 2021 to 2022. The reduction 
from the 2020 re-baselined figure was due to strategic decisions and temporary factors, such as low loan drawdown 
levels.
 Page 56
Impact on supply 
chain and/or value 
chain
– In 2024 we incorporated an additional supply chain data source to complement data from CDP (formerly the Carbon 
Disclosure Project). We continue to improve the measurement, quality and reporting of our supply chain emissions data to 
generate insights to drive targeted reduction activities.
 Page 58
– Our supply chain contributes c.81% of our operational emissions and is the area in which we face the most significant 
decarbonisation challenge. Many suppliers are still in the early phase of their decarbonisation journey. We have stepped 
up targeted efforts to support decarbonisation across our supply chain.
 Page 58
– We focus on building strategic partnerships that can help to create an enabling environment for mobilising finance, and 
support development and scaling-up of solutions for the net zero transition. In 2024 we donated approximately $9m in 
grant funding to help establish a portfolio of partnerships aligned to the strategic focus areas set out in our net zero 
transition plan: transitioning industry, catalysing the new economy, and decarbonising trade and supply chains. We are 
also supporting initiatives focused on driving progress on cross-cutting issues, such as nature and the just transition.
 Page 47
– As part of its stewardship activities, HSBC Asset Management engages on climate change issues with investee companies 
on a priority list, as defined in its Stewardship Plan.
 Page 60
Impact on adaptation 
and mitigation 
activities
– In 2024 we achieved a 30.5% reduction in our energy consumption compared with 2019 (2023: 26.3%). This has been 
achieved through optimising the use of our real estate portfolio and carrying out a reduction in our office space and data 
centres. We continue to optimise our assets to ensure greater efficiency and capitalise on new energy technologies. In 2024 
we increased our purchase of electricity from renewable sources to 75.4% from 58.4% in 2023. This included increasing our 
coverage of green tariffs in India and mainland China. Renewable electricity can help unlock our emissions reduction 
potential, and we aim to achieve 100% renewable electricity across our own operations by 2030.
 Page 58
– This forward-looking data along with historical data helps inform real estate planning. We will continue to enhance our 
understanding of how extreme weather events impact our buildings portfolio as climate risk assessment tools improve and 
evolve. We buy insurance for property damage and business interruption and consider insurance as a loss-mitigation 
strategy depending on its availability and price. We regularly review and enhance our building selection process and global 
engineering standards and will continue to assess historical claims data to help ensure our building selection and design 
standards address the potential impacts of climate change.
 Page 228
Impact on operations
– We measure the impacts of climate and weather events on our buildings on an ongoing basis using historical, current and 
scenario-modelled forecast data. In 2024, there were 40 major storms that had a minor impact on three of our buildings. 
We use stress testing to evaluate the potential impact on our owned or leased premises. Our 2024 scenario stress test 
analysed how nine climate change-related hazards – comprising coastal flooding, fluvial flooding, pluvial flooding, soil 
movement due to drought, temperature extremes, water stress, wildfires, landslides and tropical cyclones – could impact 
2,719 of our properties.
 Page 228
Impact on 
investment in 
research and 
development
– Our five-year Climate Solutions Partnership with the World Resources Institute, WWF and over 50 local partners, 
continues to support nature-based solutions and energy transition in Asia. Since 2020, $105m in funding has been 
deployed to our NGO partners. The energy programmes have engaged companies across Asia to help set new standards 
in climate commitments for their industries and mobilised finance to support the uptake of renewables. The nature 
programmes supported the Asia Sustainable Palm Oil Links programme, focused on promoting sustainable palm oil 
production, consumption and trade across Asia, and the Nature-based Solutions Accelerator, which supported projects to 
reach investment readiness.
 Page 47
– We are a founding funder of the Just Transition Finance Lab, hosted at the LSE’s Grantham Research Institute, which 
aims to accelerate solutions to achieve progress on climate and wider environmental goals through a people-centred 
approach. Since its launch in early 2024, the Lab has produced a range of outputs including: mapping just transition 
policies to a set of metrics, exploration of the role investors can play in facilitating a just transition in India, a case study of 
the coal-to-clean shift in Chile, and a detailed examination of the financial path to a just transition in the critical minerals 
sector.
 Page 47
Additional information
446
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Impact on acquisitions 
or divestments
– Our mergers and acquisitions process considers potential climate and sustainability-related targets, net zero transition 
plans and climate strategy, and how this relates to HSBC. 
 Page 219
Impact on access to 
capital
– We have considered the impact of climate-related issues on our businesses, strategy and financial planning. Our access to 
capital may be impacted by reputational concerns as a result of climate action or inaction. In addition, if we are perceived 
to mislead stakeholders on our business activities or if we fail to achieve our stated net zero ambitions, we could 
potentially face reputational damage, impacting our revenue-generating ability and our access to capital markets. We 
expect to make the disclosure in the medium term as more data becomes available. To manage these risks we have 
integrated climate risk into our existing risk taxonomy, and incorporated it within the risk management framework through 
the policies and controls for the existing risks where appropriate.
Transition plan to a lowcarbon economy
– In 2020, we set an ambition to become a net zero bank by 2050. Since then, we have taken various actions across our 
organisation to support implementation as set out in our net zero transition plan. We continue to review both our transition 
plan and associated GHG targets to, where possible, ensure they remain consistent with assumptions used in our financial 
planning, including related financial approach for the implementation of the transition plan in the medium term (e.g. amount 
of capital and other expenditures supporting our decarbonisation strategy). The reference pathways we consider are global 
and we do not currently set GHG targets for individual countries or entities; however, we continue to explore the use of 
multiple climate-related scenarios to test achievability of the financed emissions targets and own operations ambition.
c) Describe the resilience of the organisation’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario 
(Companies Act 2006 - Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (f))
Embedding climate into 
scenario analysis
– Climate scenario analysis supports our strategy by assessing our potential exposures to risks and vulnerabilities under 
a range of climate scenarios. It is one of the key tools used to support the evaluation of portfolios in line with our net 
zero ambition. 
 Page 223
– Our 2024 scenarios considered the key regions in which we operate and were designed to assess the impact on our 
balance sheet across three distinct periods: short term up to 2026; medium term from 2027 to 2035; and long term 
from 2036 to 2050.
 Page 223
Key drivers of 
performance and how 
these have been taken 
into account
– The 2024 climate scenario analysis exercise was designed to examine the climate risks and vulnerabilities of corporate 
counterparties, across high transition risk sectors under climate scenarios of varying severity. Specifically, we 
measured the modelled effect on our projected ECL change over the short-, medium- and long-term horizons under 
each scenario. This was compared to a counterfactual scenario that excludes climate change impacts to isolate the 
climate only changes in ECL. Our analysis shows that over the longer term, we expect minimal losses to materialise 
when considering the Current Commitments scenario.
 Pages 225 
and 226
– From a financial and capital planning perspective, we use climate scenario analysis to support the Group’s internal 
capital adequacy assessment process (‘ICAAP’) to understand the amount of capital the Group should hold to meet 
identified climate risks, including integration of climate impacts into the Group’s internal stress testing exercises.
 Page 223
– Climate scenario analysis also informs strategic planning by providing insights on the size and timing of financial 
impacts, and IFRS 9 loss provisioning to ensure climate risks are adequately provisioned for in our balance sheet, such 
as expected credit losses (‘ECL’).
 Page 223
Scenarios used and how 
they factored in 
government policies
– Our scenarios are: Downside Physical Risk scenario, Severe Climate Stress scenario, Current Commitments scenario, 
Below 2 Degrees scenario and Delayed Transition Risk scenario.
 Page 223
– Our 2024 scenarios considered the key regions in which we operate and were designed to assess the impact on our 
balance sheet across three distinct periods: short term up to 2026; medium term from 2027 to 2035; and long term 
from 2036 to 2050.
 Page 223
– We have chosen these scenarios to provide a holistic view that supplements the Group’s current and future strategic 
thinking. The 2024 climate scenarios are underpinned by well-established industry bodies such as Network for 
Greening Finance Phase IV, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (‘IPCC’) and International Energy Agency 
(‘IEA’), which are further enriched for additional granularity, ensuring consistency with industry-recognised work, and 
reflecting the latest climate policy and economic outlook. 
 Page 223
– The scenarios developed for climate scenario analysis are designed to examine HSBC’s financial performance and 
capital resilience across a wide range of potential climate outcomes. They are sufficiently diverse to enable HSBC’s 
key physical and transition risk vulnerabilities to be explored. To meet our global regulatory needs, we produced 
several climate stress tests for regulators around the world, including the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (‘HKMA’).
 Page 223
How our strategies may 
change and adapt
– The analysis supports our approach to supporting our clients in the transition to net zero through assessing, where 
available, client level financial and credit risk metrics, and identifying where further analysis and climate risk focus is 
required.
 Page 223
– In our net zero transition plan published in January 2024 we committed to continually calibrate our approach to take 
into consideration the latest scientific methodologies, climate-related policies and developments in the real world 
given that our sector portfolios reflect progress in the regional economies where we operate. See page 15 for details.
 Page 42
– Our target-setting approach to date for on-balance sheet financed emissions and facilitated emissions, has been to 
utilise a single reference scenario – IEA’s NZE 2021 – to underpin both energy supply-related sectors (oil and gas; 
power and utilities; and thermal coal mining), and our published targets for demand-side sectors in transport (aviation 
and automotive) and heavy industry (cement; and iron, steel and aluminium).
 Page 48
– We do not currently fully disclose the impacts of transition and physical risk quantitatively, due to transitional 
challenges including data limitations and evolving science and methodologies. In 2024, we disclosed the potential 
impairment impacts for our wholesale and commercial real estate portfolios in different climate scenarios. We also 
disclose our exposure to flooding in our retail mortgage book for specific markets. For our wholesale book, we 
disclose potential implications on our expected credit losses for 11 sectors under two scenarios. These are 
accompanied with a heat map, illustrating how we expect the potential risks to evolve over time under a variety of 
scenarios.
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) continued
Recommendation
Response
Disclosure 
location
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
447
Additional information

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Risk management
a) Describe the organisation’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks (Companies Act 2006 - Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (b))
Process
– The scenarios developed for climate scenario analysis are designed to examine HSBC’s financial performance and 
capital resilience across a wide range of potential climate outcomes. They are sufficiently diverse to enable HSBC’s 
key physical and transition risk vulnerabilities to be explored. We continue to enhance our climate scenario analysis 
exercises so that we can have a more comprehensive understanding of climate headwinds, risks and opportunities to 
support our strategic planning, actions and risk management.
 Page 223
– We continue to review policy implementation as we apply our sustainability risk policies in practice, and our 
operationalisation of such policies continues to be enhanced. We take a risk-based approach when identifying 
transactions and clients to which our sustainability risk policies apply and, where relevant, when reporting on relevant 
exposures, adopting approaches proportionate to risk and materiality. 
 Page 61
Integration into policies 
and procedures
– We continue to integrate climate risk into policies, processes and controls across many areas of our organisation, and 
we will continue to update these as our climate risk management capabilities mature over time.
 Page 220
Consider climate-related 
risks in traditional 
banking industry risk 
categories 
(supplementary guidance 
for banks)
– We provide further details of how we have embedded the management of climate risk across key risk types, including 
wholesale credit risk, retail credit risk, treasury risk, traded risk, reputational risk, regulatory compliance risk, resilience 
risk, model risk, and financial reporting risk.
 Page 221
b) Describe the organisation’s processes for managing climate-related risks (Companies Act 2006 - Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (b))
Process and how we 
make decisions
– The Group Risk Management Meeting and the Group Risk Committee receive regular updates on our climate risk 
profile and the progress of our climate risk programme.
 Page 220
– The Environmental Risk Steering Meeting (formerly the Environmental Risk Oversight Forum) provides oversight of 
environmental risk and the risk of greenwashing. Equivalent forums have been established at a regional level.
 Page 220
c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the organisation’s overall risk management 
framework (Companies Act 2006 - Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (c))
How we have aligned 
and integrated our 
approach
– Our climate risk approach is aligned to our Group-wide risk management framework and three lines of defence model, 
which sets out how we identify, assess and manage our risks. 
 Page 219
– We continue to develop our approach and climate risk capabilities across our businesses, by prioritising sectors, 
portfolios and counterparties with the highest impacts, and recognise that this is a long-term iterative process.
 Page 219
– Our annual climate risk materiality assessment helps us to understand how climate risk may impact HSBC’s risk 
taxonomy.
 Page 219
– In addition to this assessment, we also consider climate risk in our emerging risk reporting and scenario analysis.
 Page 219
How we take into 
account 
interconnections 
between entities and 
functions
– Our climate risk approach is aligned to our Group-wide risk management framework and three lines of defence model, 
which sets out how we identify, assess and manage our risks. 
 Page 219
– Through our climate risk programme, we have made progress on embedding climate considerations throughout our 
organisation. We also developed risk metrics to monitor and manage exposures, and further enhanced our internal 
climate scenario analysis. We continue to implement our climate risk programme to complete our annual materiality 
assessment and make changes to our policies, processes and capabilities to better embed climate considerations 
throughout our organisation.
 Page 130
– This includes increasing coverage and incorporating more mature data, climate analytics, frameworks and tools, and 
responding to emerging industry best practice and climate-related regulations. This also necessitates reflecting on 
how climate risk continues to evolve in the real world, and improving how we embed climate risk factors into strategic 
planning, transactions and decision making across our businesses.
 Page 219
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) continued
Recommendation
Response
Disclosure 
location
Additional information
448
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) continued
Recommendation
Response
Disclosure 
location
Metrics and targets
a) Disclose the metrics used by the organisation to assess climate-related risk and opportunities in line with its strategy and risk management process 
(Companies Act 2006 - Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (h))
Metrics used to assess 
the impact of climaterelated risks on our loan 
portfolio
– We have metrics in place to monitor the exposure of our wholesale corporate lending portfolio to six high transition 
risk sectors. As at 31 December 2024, the overall exposure to the six high transition risk sectors was 18% of total 
gross carrying amount of wholesale loans and advances.
 Page 221
– The UK is our largest mortgage market, and as of November 2024, made up 46.7% of our global mortgage portfolio. 
Our ESG Data Pack includes our climate risk exposures for this portfolio across regions. The maturity profile of the UK 
mortgage book shows that the average remaining contractual term in the UK is 21.8 years. However, with some 
customers undertaking refinancing options during this term, the average term of the mortgage can be reduced to 
between five and eight years. For the UK mortgage book, flood data is available for 93.7% of the mortgage book of 
which 0.9% is at a very high risk of flooding, with 2.7% of the book at a high risk of flooding. We monitor the energy 
performance certificate (‘EPC’) ratings of individual properties from A (highest efficiency) through to G (least efficient) 
as EPCs are commonly used as an indicator of transition risk in the UK mortgage book.
 Page 221
– We have started to enhance our approach to managing net zero alignment risk in our wholesale portfolio, through 
developing portfolio steering capabilities and revenue assessments. While we have made progress, further work 
remains, including the need to develop additional metrics and tools to measure our exposure to climate-related risks.
 Page 220
Metrics used to assess 
progress against 
opportunities
– Since 1 January 2020, we have provided and facilitated a cumulative $352.5bn of sustainable finance and $41.1bn of 
ESG and sustainable investing, as defined in our Sustainable Finance and Investment Data Dictionary 2024. This 
included 39% where the use of proceeds was dedicated to green financing, 12% to social financing, and 15% to 
other sustainable financing. It also included 24% of sustainability-linked financing and 10% of net new investment 
flows managed and distributed on behalf of investors.
 Page 45
– We do not currently fully disclose the proportion of revenue or proportion of assets, capital deployment or other 
business activities aligned with climate-related opportunities, including revenue from products and services designed 
for a low-carbon economy, forward-looking metrics consistent with our business or strategic planning time horizons. 
In relation to sustainable finance revenue and assets, we are disclosing certain elements. We expect the data and 
system limitations related to financial planning and performance, and climate-related opportunities metrics to be 
addressed in the medium term as more reliable data becomes available and technology solutions are implemented. 
We expect to further enhance this disclosure in the medium term.
Board or senior 
management incentives
– To help us achieve our ESG ambitions, a number of measures are included in the annual incentive and long-term 
incentive scorecards of the Group CEO, Group CFO and Group Executives that underpin the ESG metrics in the table 
on page 17.
 Page 17
Internal carbon price
– We do not currently disclose internal carbon prices due to transitional challenges, such as data challenges. However, 
we considered carbon prices as an input for our climate scenario analysis exercise. We expect to further enhance this 
disclosure in the medium term.
Metrics used to assess 
the impact of climate 
risk on lending and 
financial intermediary 
business (supplemental 
guidance for banks)
– As part of our 2024 climate scenario analysis exercise, we completed a detailed retail mortgage risk assessment for 
the UK, US, Singapore and Malaysia. In our 2023 exercise we also assessed Hong Kong, Australia and mainland 
China. Our coverage represented 91% of the balances in our global retail mortgage portfolio, across the two 
exercises. For our Hong Kong portfolio, we completed a short- and long-term scenario analysis exercise during late 
2023 and early 2024 at the request of the HKMA. Our analysis shows that over the longer term, we expect minimal 
losses to materialise when considering the Current Commitments scenario.
 Page 226
– The impact on our wholesale portfolios is demonstrated by the table on page 225 which shows the size of exposures 
by sector in 2024 and the cumulative change in ECL compared with a counterfactual scenario (expressed as a 
multiple). The size of our exposure in each sector is represented by our exposure at default (‘EAD’) relative to one 
another.
 Page 225
– We do not fully disclose metrics used to assess the impact of climate-related physical (chronic) and transition (policy and 
legal, technology and market) risks on retail lending, parts of wholesale lending and other financial intermediary business 
activities (specifically credit exposure, equity and debt holdings, or trading positions, broken down by industry, 
geography, credit quality and average tenor). We are aiming to develop the appropriate systems, data and processes to 
provide these disclosures in future years. We disclose the exposure to six, high-transition risk wholesale sectors as a 
proportion of total wholesale loans and advances and the flood risk exposure and Energy Performance Certificate (‘EPC’) 
breakdown for the UK retail mortgage portfolio.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
449
Additional information

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD’) continued
Recommendation
Response
Disclosure 
location
b) Disclose scope 1, scope 2 and, if appropriate, scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions and the related risks (Companies Act 2006 - Sections 414CA and 
414CB 2A (h))
Our own operations
– Our supply chain contributes c.81% of our operational emissions and is the area in which we face the most significant 
decarbonisation challenge. Many suppliers are still in the early phase of their decarbonisation journey. We have 
stepped up targeted efforts to support decarbonisation across our supply chain.
 Page 58
– We report GHG emissions associated with the energy used in our premises and employees’ business travel and our 
supply chain in tonnes of CO2 equivalent. As more of our suppliers report their emissions, we should be able to 
include more accurate data and fewer industry averages in the calculation. We have applied a data quality score to the 
sources of data we used to determine counterparty emissions.
 Page 59
Greenhouse gas 
emissions for lending 
and financial 
intermediary business 
(supplemental guidance 
for banks)
– Our analysis of financed emissions comprises ‘on-balance sheet financed emissions’ and ‘facilitated emissions’, which 
we distinguish where necessary in our reporting. Our on-balance sheet financed emissions include emissions related to 
on-balance sheet lending, such as project finance and direct lending. Our facilitated emissions include emissions related 
to financing we help clients to raise through capital markets activities. Our analysis covers financing from Global Banking 
and Markets, and Commercial Banking.
 Page 48
– HSBC Asset Management recognises that climate-related risks may impact the operational and financial performance of 
investee companies. The impact of these risks will vary depending on characteristics such as asset class, sector, 
business model and geography. HSBC Asset Management continues to integrate climate analysis into its actively 
managed product offerings and seeks to assess climate-related risks that could impact investment performance, where 
applicable and relevant.
 Page 60
– We currently disclose partial scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions. We currently focus on disclosing only four out of 
fifteen categories of scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions, including business travel, supply chain and financed 
emissions, following our internal materiality assessment. In relation to financed emissions, we publish on-balance 
sheet financed emissions for a number of sectors, covering 2.7% of our loans and advances to customers at 
31 December 2023, as detailed on page 56. We also publish facilitated emissions for the oil and gas, and power and 
utilities sectors. Data quality of future disclosures on financed emissions and related risks are reliant on our customers 
publicly disclosing their greenhouse gas emissions, targets and plans, and related risks. We recognise the need to 
provide early transparency on climate disclosures but balance this with the recognition that existing data and reporting 
processes continue to require significant enhancements.
c) Describe the targets used by the organisation to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance against targets (Companies Act 
2006 - Sections 414CA and 414CB 2A (g))
Details of targets set 
and whether they are 
absolute or intensity 
based
– We aim to help our customers transition to net zero and a sustainable future by providing and facilitating between 
$750bn and $1tn of sustainable finance and investment by 2030.
 Page 45
– We set interim 2030 financed emissions targets. However, we use different time horizons for climate risk 
management. For climate risk, we define short term as time periods up to 2026; medium term is between 2027 and 
2035; and long term is between 2036 and 2050. For financed emissions we do not plan to set 2026 targets. In 2024, 
we disclose interim 2030 financed emissions targets for seven sectors comprising five on-balance sheet and two 
combined financed emissions targets, as we outline on page 52. We have set combined on-balance sheet financed 
emissions and facilitated emissions targets for two emissions-intensive sectors: oil and gas; and power and utilities; 
and report the combined progress for both sectors. In 2025, we plan to review our targets to consider the latest net 
zero-aligned scenarios available. For further details on the restatements and targets and progress of financed 
emissions, see ’Our approach to emissions re-baselines and restatements’ and ‘Targets and progress’ on pages 51 
and 52 respectively.
– We do not currently disclose a target for capital deployment. In relation to capital deployment, since 2015, we have 
issued more than $2bn of our own green bonds and structured green bonds with the capital invested into a variety of 
green projects, including: green buildings; and renewable energy and clean transportation projects. Following 
extensive internal and external review of HSBC’s green issuance framework, we published the updated HSBC Green 
Financing Framework in October 2024. This Green Financing Framework forms part of our sustainability strategy and 
sets out our approach to allocating amounts equivalent to the net proceeds raised through certain instruments and 
transactions against financing for businesses and projects that meet certain eligibility criteria. See the HSBC Green 
Financing Framework at www.hsbc.com/investors/fixed-income-investors/green-financing-framework for further 
information.
– We do not currently disclose an internal carbon pricing target due to transitional challenges, such as developing the 
appropriate systems and processes, but we considered carbon prices as an input for our climate scenario analysis 
exercise. We expect to further enhance the disclosure in the medium term as more data becomes available.
– We do not currently disclose targets used to measure and manage physical risk. This is due to transitional challenges, 
including the data limitations of physical risk metrics. For retail, we do not use targets to measure and manage 
physical risk. In 2024, we continued to use an internally developed global ‘soft trigger’ monitoring and review process 
for physical risk exposure where a market reaches or exceeds a set threshold, as this ensures markets are actively 
considering their balance sheet risk exposure to peril events. We also consider physical and transition risk as an input 
for our climate scenario analysis exercise. We expect to further enhance our disclosures as our data, quantitative 
scenario analysis, risk metrics and physical risk targets evolve, and technology solutions are implemented in the 
medium term.
– We have described the targets used by the organisation to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and 
performance against targets. However, taking into account the nature of our business, we do not consider water 
usage to be a material target for our business and, therefore, we have not included a target in this year’s disclosure.
Other key performance 
indicators used
– In 2024 we achieved a 30.5% reduction in our energy consumption compared with 2019 (2023: 26.3%).
 Page 58
– In 2024 we increased our purchase of electricity from renewable sources to 75.4% from 58.4% in 2023. This included 
increasing our coverage of green tariffs in India and mainland China. Renewable electricity can help unlock our 
emissions reduction potential, and we aim to achieve 100% renewable electricity across our own operations by 2030.
 Page 58
Additional information
450
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements
This Annual Report and Accounts 2024 contains certain forwardlooking statements with respect to HSBC’s financial condition; results 
of operations and business, including the strategic priorities; financial, 
investment and capital targets; and ESG ambitions, targets and 
commitments described herein.
Statements that are not historical facts, including statements about 
HSBC’s beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. 
Words such as ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘should’, ‘expects’, ‘targets’, ‘anticipates’, 
‘intends’, ‘plans’, ‘believes’, ‘seeks’, ‘estimates’, ‘potential’ and 
‘reasonably possible’, or the negative thereof, other variations 
thereon or similar expressions are intended to identify forwardlooking statements. These statements are based on current plans, 
information, data, estimates and projections, and therefore undue 
reliance should not be placed on them. Forward-looking statements 
speak only as of the date they are made. HSBC makes no 
commitment to revise or update any forward-looking statements to 
reflect events or circumstances occurring or existing after the date of 
any forward-looking statements. Written and/or oral forward-looking 
statements may also be made in the periodic reports to the US 
Securities and Exchange Commission, summary financial statements 
to shareholders, offering circulars and prospectuses, press releases 
and other written materials, and in oral statements made by HSBC’s 
directors, officers or employees to third parties, including financial 
analysts. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and 
uncertainties. Readers are cautioned that a number of factors could 
cause actual results to differ, in some instances materially, from 
those anticipated or implied in any forward-looking statement. These 
include, but are not limited to:
–
changes in general economic conditions in the markets in which
we operate, such as new, continuing or deepening recessions,
prolonged inflationary pressures and fluctuations in employment
levels and the creditworthiness of customers beyond those
factored into consensus forecasts; the Russia-Ukraine war and the
conflict in the Middle East and their impact on global economies
and the markets where HSBC operates, which could have a
material adverse effect on (among other things) our financial
condition, results of operations, prospects, liquidity, capital
position and credit ratings; deviations from the market and
economic assumptions that form the basis for our ECL
measurements (including, without limitation, as a result of the
Russia-Ukraine war and the conflict in the Middle East, inflationary
pressures, commodity price changes, and ongoing developments
in the commercial real estate sector in mainland China); potential
changes in HSBC’s dividend policy; changes and volatility in
foreign exchange rates and interest rates levels, including the
accounting impact resulting from financial reporting in respect of
hyperinflationary economies; volatility in equity markets; lack of
liquidity in wholesale funding or capital markets, which may affect
our ability to meet our obligations under financing facilities or to
fund new loans, investments and businesses; geopolitical
tensions or diplomatic developments producing social instability or
legal uncertainty, such as the Russia-Ukraine war or the conflict in
the Middle East (including the resurgence, continuation or
escalation thereof) and the related imposition of sanctions and
trade restrictions, supply chain restrictions and disruptions,
sustained increases in energy prices and key commodity prices,
claims of human rights violations, diplomatic tensions between
China and the US, which may extend to and involve other
countries, and developments in Hong Kong and Taiwan, alongside
other potential areas of tension, which may adversely affect HSBC
by creating regulatory, reputational and market risks; the efficacy
of government, customer, and HSBC’s actions in managing and
mitigating ESG risks, in particular climate risk, nature-related risks
and human rights risks, and in supporting the global transition to
net zero carbon emissions, each of which can impact HSBC both
directly and indirectly through our customers and which may result
in potential financial and non-financial impacts; illiquidity and
downward price pressure in national real estate markets; adverse
changes in central banks’ policies with respect to the provision of
liquidity support to financial markets; heightened market concerns
over sovereign creditworthiness in over-indebted countries;
adverse changes in the funding status of public or private defined 
benefit pensions; societal shifts in customer financing and 
investment needs, including consumer perception as to the 
continuing availability of credit; exposure to counterparty risk, 
including third parties using us as a conduit for illegal activities 
without our knowledge; the discontinuation of certain key Ibors 
and the transition of the remaining legacy Ibor contracts to near 
risk-free benchmark rates, which continues to expose HSBC to 
some financial and non-financial risks; and price competition in the 
market segments we serve;
–
changes in government policy and regulation, including trade and
tariff policies, as well as monetary, interest rate and other policies
of central banks and other regulatory authorities in the principal
markets in which we operate and the consequences thereof
(including, without limitation, actions taken as a result of changes
in government following national elections in the markets where
the Group operates); initiatives to change the size, scope of
activities and interconnectedness of financial institutions in
connection with the implementation of stricter regulation of
financial institutions in key markets worldwide; revised capital and
liquidity benchmarks, which could serve to deleverage bank
balance sheets and lower returns available from the current
business model and portfolio mix; changes to tax laws and tax
rates applicable to HSBC, including the imposition of levies or
taxes designed to change business mix and risk appetite; the
practices, pricing or responsibilities of financial institutions serving
their consumer markets; expropriation, nationalisation,
confiscation of assets and changes in legislation relating to foreign
ownership; the UK’s relationship with the EU, particularly with
respect to the potential divergence of UK and EU law on the
regulation of financial services; changes in government approach
and regulatory treatment in relation to ESG disclosures and
reporting requirements, and the current lack of a single
standardised regulatory approach to ESG across all sectors and
markets; changes in UK macroeconomic and fiscal policy, which
may result in fluctuations in the value of the pound sterling;
general changes in government policy (including, without
limitation, actions taken as a result of changes in government
following national elections in the markets where the Group
operates) that may significantly influence investor decisions; the
costs, effects and outcomes of regulatory reviews, actions or
litigation, including any additional compliance requirements; and
the effects of competition in the markets where we operate
including increased competition from non-bank financial services
companies; and
–
factors specific to HSBC, including our success in adequately
identifying the risks we face, such as the incidence of loan losses
or delinquency, and managing those risks (through account
management, hedging and other techniques); our ability to achieve
our financial, investment, capital and ESG ambitions, targets and
commitments (including the positions set forth in our thermal coal
phase-out policy and our energy policy and our targets to reduce
our on-balance sheet financed emissions and, where applicable,
facilitated emissions in our portfolio of selected high-emitting
sectors), which may result in our failure to achieve any of the
expected outcomes of our strategic priorities; evolving regulatory
requirements and the development of new technologies, including
artificial intelligence, affecting how we manage model risk; model
limitations or failure, including, without limitation, the impact that
high inflationary pressures and rising interest rates have had on
the performance and usage of financial models, which may require
us to hold additional capital, incur losses and/or use compensating
controls, such as judgemental post-model adjustments, to address
model limitations; changes to the judgements, estimates and
assumptions we base our financial statements on; changes in our
ability to meet the requirements of regulatory stress tests; a
reduction in the credit ratings assigned to us or any of our
subsidiaries, which could increase the cost or decrease the
availability of our funding and affect our liquidity position and net
interest margin; changes to the reliability and security of our data
management, data privacy, information and technology
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
451
Additional information

--- PAGE BREAK ---

infrastructure, including threats from cyber-attacks, which may 
impact our ability to service clients and may result in financial loss, 
business disruption and/or loss of customer services and data; the 
accuracy and effective use of data, including internal management 
information that may not have been independently verified; 
changes in insurance customer behaviour and insurance claim 
rates; our dependence on loan payments and dividends from 
subsidiaries to meet our obligations; changes in our reporting 
frameworks and accounting standards, which have had and may 
continue to have a material impact on the way we prepare our 
financial statements; our ability to successfully execute planned 
strategic acquisitions and disposals; our success in adequately 
integrating acquired businesses into our business; our ability to 
successfully execute and implement the announced strategic 
reorganisation of the Group; changes in our ability to manage thirdparty, fraud, financial crime and reputational risks inherent in our 
operations; employee misconduct, which may result in regulatory 
sanctions and/or reputational or financial harm; changes in skill 
requirements, ways of working and talent shortages, which may 
affect our ability to recruit and retain senior management and an 
inclusive and skilled workforce; and changes in our ability to 
develop sustainable finance and ESG-related products consistent 
with the evolving expectations of our regulators, and our capacity 
to measure the environmental and social impacts from our 
financing activity (including as a result of data limitations and 
changes in methodologies), which may affect our ability to achieve 
our ESG ambitions, targets and commitments, including our net 
zero ambition, our targets to reduce on-balance sheet financed 
emissions and, where applicable, facilitated emissions in our 
portfolio of selected high-emitting sectors and the positions set 
forth in our thermal coal phase-out policy and our energy policy, 
and increase the risk of greenwashing. Effective risk management 
depends on, among other things, our ability through stress testing 
and other techniques to prepare for events that cannot be 
captured by the statistical models it uses; our success in 
addressing operational, legal and regulatory, and litigation 
challenges; and other risks and uncertainties we identify in ‘Top 
and emerging risks’ on pages 131 to 136. 
This Annual Report and Accounts 2024 contains a number of images, 
graphics, infographics, text boxes and illustrative case studies and 
credentials which aim to give a high-level overview of certain 
elements of our disclosures and to improve accessibility for readers. 
These images, graphics, infographics, text boxes and illustrative case 
studies and credentials are designed to be read within the context of 
the Annual Report and Accounts 2024 as a whole.
Additional cautionary statement 
regarding ESG data, metrics and 
forward-looking statements
The Annual Report and Accounts 2024 contains a number of forwardlooking statements (as defined above) with respect to HSBC’s ESG 
ambitions, targets, commitments, climate-related pathways, 
processes and plans, and the methodologies and scenarios we use, 
or intend to use, to assess our progress in relation to these (‘ESGrelated forward-looking statements’).
In preparing the ESG-related information contained in the Annual 
Report and Accounts 2024, HSBC has made a number of key 
judgements, estimations and assumptions, and the processes and 
issues involved are complex. We have used ESG (including climate) 
data, models and methodologies that we consider, as of the date on 
which they were used, to be appropriate and suitable to understand 
and assess climate change risk and its impact, to analyse financed 
emissions - and operational and supply chain emissions, to set ESGrelated targets and to evaluate the classification of sustainable 
finance and investments. However, these data, models and 
methodologies are often new, are rapidly evolving and are not of the 
same standard as those available in the context of other financial 
information, nor are they subject to the same or equivalent disclosure 
standards, historical reference points, benchmarks or globally 
accepted accounting principles. In particular, it is not possible to rely 
on historical data as a strong indicator of future trajectories in the 
case of climate change and its evolution. Outputs of models, 
processed data and methodologies are also likely to be affected by 
underlying data quality, which can be hard to assess and we expect 
industry guidance, market practice, and regulations in this field to 
continue to change. We also face challenges in relation to our ability 
to access data on a timely basis, lack of consistency and 
comparability between data that is available and our ability to collect 
and process relevant data. Consequently, the ESG-related forwardlooking statements and ESG metrics disclosed in the Annual Report 
and Accounts 2024 carry an additional degree of inherent risk and 
uncertainty.
Due to the unpredictable evolution of climate change and its future 
impact and the uncertainty of future policy and market response to 
ESG-related issues and the effectiveness of any such response, 
HSBC may have to re-evaluate its progress towards its ESG 
ambitions, targets and commitments in the future, update the 
methodologies it uses or alter its approach to ESG (including climate) 
analysis and may be required to amend, update and recalculate its 
ESG disclosures and assessments in the future, as market practice 
and data quality and availability develop. 
No assurance can be given by or on behalf of HSBC as to the 
likelihood of the achievement or reasonableness of any projections, 
estimates, forecasts, ambitions, targets, commitments, prospects or 
returns contained herein. Readers are cautioned that a number of 
factors, both external and those specific to HSBC, could cause actual 
achievements, results, performance or other future events or 
conditions to differ, in some cases materially, from those stated, 
implied and/or reflected in any ESG-related forward-looking statement 
or metric due to a variety of risks, uncertainties and other factors 
(including without limitation those referred to below):
–
Climate change projection risk: this includes, for example, the 
evolution of climate change and its impacts, changes in the 
scientific assessment of climate change impacts, transition 
pathways and future risk exposure and limitations of climate 
scenario forecasts;
–
ESG projection risk: ESG metrics are complex and are still subject 
to development. In addition, the scenarios employed in relation to 
them, and the models that analyse them have limitations that are 
sensitive to key assumptions and parameters, which are 
themselves subject to some uncertainty, and cannot fully capture 
all of the potential effects of climate, policy and technology-driven 
outcomes;
–
Changes in the ESG regulatory landscape: this involves changes in 
government approach and regulatory treatment in relation to ESG 
disclosures and reporting requirements, and the current lack of a 
single standardised regulatory approach to ESG across all sectors 
and markets; 
–
Variation in reporting standards: ESG reporting standards are still 
developing and are not standardised or comparable across all 
sectors and markets, new reporting standards in relation to 
different ESG metrics are still emerging; 
–
Data availability, accuracy, verifiability and data gaps: our 
disclosures are limited by the availability of high quality data in 
some areas and our own ability to timely collect and process such 
data as required. Where data is not available for all sectors or 
consistently year on year, there may be an impact to our data 
quality scores. While we expect our data quality scores to improve 
over time, as companies continue to expand their disclosures to 
meet growing regulatory and stakeholder expectations, there may 
be unexpected fluctuations within sectors year on year, and/or 
differences between the data quality scores between sectors. Any 
such changes in the availability and quality of data over time, or 
our ability to collect and process such data, could result in 
revisions to reported data going forward, including on financed 
emissions, meaning that such data may not be reconcilable or 
comparable year-on year;
Additional information
452
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

–
Developing methodologies and scenarios: the methodologies and 
scenarios HSBC uses to assess financed emissions and set ESGrelated targets may develop over time in line with market practice, 
regulation and/or developments in science, where applicable. Such 
developments could result in revisions to reported data, including 
on financed emissions or the classification of sustainable finance 
and investments, meaning that data outputs may not be 
reconcilable or comparable year-on year; and
–
Risk management capabilities: global actions, including HSBC’s 
own actions, may not be effective in transitioning to net zero and 
in managing relevant ESG risks, including in particular climate, 
nature-related and human rights risks, each of which can impact 
HSBC both directly and indirectly through our customers, and 
which may result in potential financial and non-financial impacts to 
HSBC. In particular:
–
we may not be able to achieve our ESG ambitions, targets and 
commitments (including with respect to the positions set forth in 
our thermal coal phase-out policy and our energy policy, and our 
targets to reduce our on-balance sheet financed emissions and, 
where applicable, facilitated emissions in our portfolio of selected 
high-emitting sectors), which may result in our failure to achieve 
some or all of the expected outcomes of our strategic priorities; 
and
–
we may not be able to develop sustainable finance and ESGrelated products consistent with the evolving expectations of our 
regulators, and our capacity to measure the environmental and 
social impacts from our financing activity may diminish (including 
as a result of data and model limitations and changes in 
methodologies), which may affect our ability to achieve our ESG 
ambitions, targets and commitments, including our net zero 
ambition, our targets to reduce our on-balance sheet financed 
emissions and, where applicable, facilitated emissions in our 
portfolio of selected high-emitting sectors and the positions set 
forth in our thermal coal phase-out policy and energy policy, and 
increase the risk of greenwashing. 
Any forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of HSBC speak 
only as of the date they are made. HSBC expressly disclaims any 
obligation to revise or update these ESG forward-looking statements, 
other than as expressly required by applicable law. 
Written and/or oral ESG-related forward-looking statements may also 
be made in our periodic reports to the US Securities and Exchange 
Commission, summary financial statements to shareholders, proxy 
statements, offering circulars and prospectuses, press releases and 
other written materials, and in oral statements made by HSBC’s 
Directors, officers or employees to third parties, including financial 
analysts.
Our data dictionaries and methodologies for preparing the above 
ESG-related metrics and third-party limited assurance reports can be 
found on: www.hsbc.com/who-we-are/esg-and-responsible-business/
esg-reporting-centre. 
Certain defined terms
Unless the context requires otherwise, ‘HSBC Holdings’ means 
HSBC Holdings plc and ‘HSBC’, the ‘Group’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ refer 
to HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiaries. Within this 
document the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the 
People’s Republic of China is referred to as ‘Hong Kong’. 
When used in the terms ‘shareholders’ equity’ and ‘total 
shareholders’ equity’, ‘shareholders’ means holders of HSBC 
Holdings ordinary shares and those preference shares and capital 
securities issued by HSBC Holdings classified as equity. The 
abbreviations ‘$m’, ‘$bn’ and ‘$tn’ represent millions, billions 
(thousands of millions) and trillions of US dollars, respectively.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
453
Additional information

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Abbreviations
Currencies
£
British pound sterling
CA$
Canadian dollar
€
Euro
HK$
Hong Kong dollar
MXN
Mexican peso
RMB
Chinese renminbi
SGD
Singapore dollar
$
United States dollar
Abbreviations
1H24
First half of 2024
1Q24
First quarter of 2024
2Q24
Second quarter of 2024
3Q24
Third quarter of 2024
4Q24 
Fourth quarter of 2024 
9M24
Nine months of 2024
A
ABS¹
Asset-backed security
ADR
American Depositary Receipt
ADS
American Depositary Share
AGM
Annual General Meeting
AI
Artificial intelligence
AIBL
Average interest-bearing liabilities 
AIEA
Average interest-earning assets
ALCO
Asset and Liability Management Committee
AML
Anti-money laundering
AML DPA
Five-year deferred prosecution agreement with the US 
Department of Justice, entered into in December 2012
ANP
Annualised new business premium
ASEAN
Association of Southeast Asian Nations
AT1
Additional tier 1
B
Banking NII
Banking net interest income
Basel 
Committee
Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
Basel II¹
2006 Basel Capital Accord
Basel III¹
Basel Committee’s reforms to strengthen global capital and 
liquidity rules
Basel 3.1
Outstanding measures to be implemented from the Basel 
III reforms
BEPS
Base Erosion and Profit Shifting
BGF
Business Growth Fund, an investment firm that provides 
growth capital for small and mid-sized businesses in the UK 
and Ireland
BoCom
Bank of Communications Co., Limited, one of China’s 
largest banks
BoE
Bank of England
Bps¹
Basis points. One basis point is equal to one-hundredth of a 
percentage point
BVI
British Virgin Islands
C
CAPM
Capital asset pricing model
CDS¹
Credit default swap
CEA
Commodity Exchange Act (US)
CET1¹
Common equity tier 1
CGUs
Cash-generating units
CIB
Corporate and Institutional Banking 
CMB
Commercial Banking, a global business
CMC
Capital maintenance charge
CODM
Chief Operating Decision Maker
COSO
2013 Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the 
Treadway Commission (US)
Corporate 
Centre
Corporate Centre comprises Central Treasury, our legacy 
businesses, interests in our associates and joint ventures, 
central stewardship costs and consolidation adjustments
CP¹
Commercial paper
CRD IV¹
Capital Requirements Regulation and Directive
CRR¹
Customer risk rating
CRR II¹
The regulatory requirements of the Capital Requirements 
Regulation and Directive, the CRR II regulation and the PRA 
Rulebook
CSA
Credit support annex
CSM
Contractual service margin
CVA¹
Credit valuation adjustment
D
DECL
Disclosures about Expected Credit Losses
Deferred shares
Awards of deferred shares define the number of HSBC 
Holdings ordinary shares to which the employee will 
become entitled, generally between one and seven years 
from the date of the award, and normally subject to the 
individual remaining in employment
DPD
Days past due
DPF
Discretionary participation feature of insurance and 
investment contracts
DVA¹
Debit valuation adjustment
E
EAD¹
Exposure at default
EBA
European Banking Authority
EC
European Commission
ECB
European Central Bank
ECL
Expected credit losses. In the income statement, ECL is 
recorded as a change in expected credit losses and other 
credit impairment charges. In the balance sheet, ECL is 
recorded as an allowance for financial instruments to which 
only the impairment requirements in IFRS 9 are applied
EEA
European Economic Area
Eonia
Euro Overnight Index Average
EPC
Energy performance certificate
EPS
Earnings per ordinary share
ESG
Environmental, social and governance
EU
European Union
Euribor
Euro interbank offered rate
EVE
Economic value of equity
F
FAST-Infra
Finance to Accelerate the Sustainable TransitionInfrastructure
FCA
Financial Conduct Authority (UK)
FDIC
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
FFVA
Funding fair value adjustment estimation methodology on 
derivative contracts
FPA
Fixed pay allowance
FRB
Federal Reserve Board (US)
FRC
Financial Reporting Council
FSCS
Financial Services Compensation Scheme
FTE
Full-time equivalent staff
FTSE
Financial Times Stock Exchange index
FVOCI¹
Fair value through other comprehensive income
FX
Foreign exchange
G
GAAP
Generally accepted accounting principles
GAC
Group Audit Committee
GBM
Global Banking and Markets, a global business
GDP
Gross domestic product
GEC
Group Executive Committee
GHG
Greenhouse Gas 
GMP
Guaranteed minimum pension
GPS
Global Payments Solutions, the business formerly known as 
Global Liquidity and Cash Management
GPSP
Group Performance Share Plan
GRC
Group Risk Committee
Additional information
454
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Group
HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiary undertakings
GTS
Global Trade Solutions, the business formerly known as 
Global Trade and Receivables Finance
H
Hang Seng Bank Hang Seng Bank Limited, one of Hong Kong’s largest banks
HKEx
The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited
HKMA
Hong Kong Monetary Authority
HMRC
HM Revenue and Customs
Holdings ALCO
HSBC Holdings Asset and Liability Management Committee
Hong Kong
Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s 
Republic of China
HQLA
High-quality liquid assets
HSBC
HSBC Holdings together with its subsidiary undertakings
HSBC Bank plc
HSBC Bank plc, also known as the non-ring-fenced bank
HSBC Bank 
Middle East
HSBC Bank Middle East Limited
HSBC Bank 
USA
HSBC Bank USA, N.A., HSBC’s retail bank in the US
HSBC Canada
The sub-group, HSBC Bank Canada, HSBC Trust Company 
Canada, HSBC Mortgage Corporation Canada and HSBC 
Securities Canada, consolidated for liquidity purposes
HSBC 
Continental 
Europe
HSBC Continental Europe
HSBC Finance
HSBC Finance Corporation, the US consumer finance 
company (formerly Household International, Inc.)
HSBC Holdings
HSBC Holdings plc, the parent company of HSBC
HSBC Private 
Bank (Suisse)
HSBC Private Bank (Suisse) SA, HSBC’s private bank in 
Switzerland
HSBC UK
HSBC UK Bank plc, also known as the ring-fenced bank
HSBC USA
The sub-group, HSBC USA Inc (the holding company of 
HSBC Bank USA) and HSBC Bank USA, consolidated for 
liquidity purposes
HSI
HSBC Securities (USA) Inc.
HSSL
HSBC Securities Services (Luxembourg)
I
IAS
International Accounting Standards
IASB
International Accounting Standards Board
IBE
Independent Board Evaluation
Ibor
Interbank offered rate
ICAAP
Internal capital adequacy assessment process
ICMA
International Capital Market Association
IEA
International Energy Agency
IFRS Accounting 
Standards
International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board
ILAAP
Internal liquidity adequacy assessment process
IMA
Internal model approach
IMM
Internal model method
IRB¹
Internal ratings-based
ISDA
International Swaps and Derivatives Association
ISSB
International Sustainability Standard Board
IVB
HSBC Innovation Banking 
IWPB
International Wealth and Premier Banking 
J
JV
Joint venture
K
KMP
Key Management Personnel
L
LCR
Liquidity coverage ratio
LGBTQ+
Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer. The plus 
sign denotes other non-mainstream groups on the 
spectrums of sexual orientation and gender identity
LGD¹
Loss given default
Libor
London interbank offered rate
Long term
For our financial targets, we define long term as five to six 
years, commencing 1 January 2025
LTI
Long-term incentive
LTV¹
Loan to value
M
Mainland China
People’s Republic of China excluding Hong Kong and 
Macau
Medium term
For our financial targets, we define medium term as three 
to four years, commencing 1 January 2025
MENAT
Middle East, North Africa and Türkiye
MREL
Minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities
MRT¹
Material Risk Taker
MSS
Markets and Securities Services, HSBC’s capital markets 
and securities services businesses in Global Banking and 
Markets
N
Net operating 
income
Net operating income before change in expected credit 
losses and other credit impairment charges
NGO
Non-governmental organisation
NII
Net interest income
NIM
Net interest margin
NPS
Net promoter score
NSFR
Net stable funding ratio
NYSE
New York Stock Exchange
O
OCI
Other comprehensive income
OECD
Organisation of Economic Co-operation and Development
OTC¹
Over-the-counter
P
PBT
Profit before tax
PCAF
Partnership for Carbon Accounting Financials
PD¹
Probability of default
Performance 
shares¹
Awards of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares under employee 
share plans that are subject to corporate performance 
conditions
Ping An
Ping An Insurance (Group) Company of China, Ltd, the 
second-largest life insurer in the PRC
POCI
Purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets
PRA
Prudential Regulation Authority (UK)
PRC
People’s Republic of China
Principal plan
HSBC Bank (UK) Pension Scheme
PVIF
Present value of in-force long-term insurance business and 
long-term investment contracts with DPF
PwC
The member firms of the PwC network, including 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
R
RAS
Risk appetite statement
Repo¹
Sale and repurchase transaction
Revenue
Net operating income before ECL
Reverse repo
Security purchased under commitments to sell
RNIV
Risk not in VaR
RoE
Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity
RoTE
Return on average tangible equity
RWA¹
Risk-weighted asset
S
SAB
Saudi Awwal Bank
SAPS
Self-administered pension scheme
SASB
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board
SBTi
Science Based Targets initiative
SDG
United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals
SEC
Securities and Exchange Commission (US)
ServCo group
Separately incorporated group of service companies 
established in response to UK ring-fencing requirements
Sibor
Singapore interbank offered rate
SIC
Securities investment conduit
SME
Small and medium-sized enterprise
Solitaire
Solitaire Funding Limited, a special purpose entity managed 
by HSBC
SPE¹
Special purpose entity
SVB UK
Silicon Valley Bank UK Limited, now HSBC Innovation Bank 
Limited
T
TCFD¹
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
THBFIX
Thai Baht Interest Rate Fixing
TNFD
Taskforce on Nature-related Financial Disclosures
TSR¹
Total shareholder return
U
UAE
United Arab Emirates
UK
United Kingdom
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024
455
Additional information

--- PAGE BREAK ---

UN
United Nations
US
United States of America
V
VaR¹
Value at risk
VIU
Value in use
W
WEF
World Economic Forum
WPB
Wealth and Personal Banking, a global business
1 A full definition is included in the glossary to the Annual Report and 
Accounts 2024 which is available at www.hsbc.com/investors.
 HSBC Holdings plc
 Incorporated in England and Wales on 1 January 1959 with
 limited liability under the UK Companies Act
 Registration number 617987
Registered Office and Group Head Office
8 Canada Square
London E14 5HQ
United Kingdom
Telephone: 44 020 7991 8888 
Facsimile: 44 020 7992 4880 
Web: www.hsbc.com
Corporate Brokers
Morgan Stanley & Co. International plc
25 Cabot Square
London E14 4QA
United Kingdom
Bank of America Securities
2 King Edward Street
London EC1A 1HQ
United Kingdom
HSBC Bank plc 
8 Canada Square 
London E14 5HQ
United Kingdom
Additional information
456
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024

--- PAGE BREAK ---

© Copyright HSBC Holdings plc 2025
All rights reserved 
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval 
system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, 
mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without the prior 
written permission of HSBC Holdings plc
Published by Global Finance, HSBC Holdings plc, London 
Designed by Global Finance, HSBC Holdings plc with Design Bridge 
and Partners, London
Printed by Park Communications Limited, London, on Nautilus 
SuperWhite board and paper using vegetable oil-based inks. Made in 
Austria, the stocks comprise 100% de-inked post-consumer waste. 
Pulps used are totally chlorine-free. 
The FSC® recycled logo identifies a paper that contains 100% postconsumer recycled fibre certified in accordance with the rules of the 
Forest Stewardship Council®.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

HSBC Holdings plc
8 Canada Square
London E14 5HQ
United Kingdom
T: +44 (0)20 7991 8888
www.hsbc.com