Sustainability Report 2024
THE GLOBAL 
MOBILITY TRANSITION, 
DELIVERED LOCALLY

--- PAGE BREAK ---

01
02
03
04
05
OVERVIEW
OUR 
BUSINESS
DELIVERING 
INSIGHTS
ENABLING 
TECHNOLOGIES
SUSTAINABLE 
ROUTE TO 
MARKET
03
Inchcape at a glance 
04
Sustainability highlights 
05
Introductory statement from 
Duncan Tait, Group Chief Executive 
06
A word from Liz Brown, Chief 
Strategy and Sustainability Officer 
08
Our business model
09
Our approach to Sustainability
12
Sustainability Framework
13
Accelerate+: driving 
sustainable growth
15
Working in partnership with OEMs
16
Double materiality assessment
17
Introduction
18
Understanding consumers of the 
mobility transition
19
Delivering insights to policymakers
20
Supporting Chile’s mobility 
transition through policy advice
21
Introduction
22
Global mobility transition, 
delivered locally
24
Rolling out new technologies, 
market-by-market
25
Nurturing the future of EV talent 
26
Safely delivering the 
mobility transition
27
Introduction
28
Cross-pillar impact through DDCs
29
Planet
40
People
48
Places
53
Practices
W H A T ’ S I N S I D E
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
01

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Mobility remains critical to access opportunities within 
a complex and dynamic global landscape. The 
transition to low-emission transport and the innovation 
required to address climate change continue to be 
priorities across Inchcape’s markets. With our diversified 
footprint, strategic partnerships and strong commercial 
foundations, we are well-positioned to respond with 
agility and deliver long-term, sustainable value.
Alex Jensen: Independent Non-Executive Director
03
Inchcape at a glance 
04
Sustainability highlights 
05
Introductory statement from 
Duncan Tait, Group Chief Executive 
06
A word from Liz Brown, Chief Strategy 
and Sustainability Officer 
SUSTAINABILITY 
UNDERPINS OUR 
BUSINESS STRATEGY
OVERVIEW
01
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
02
inchcape.com

--- PAGE BREAK ---

I N C H C A P E A T A G L A N C E : 2 0 2 4 S N A P S H O T
During 2024, Inchcape accelerated its transformation as the leading 
global independent automotive distributor. This was achieved 
through the sale of the UK retail business and a record number 
of Distribution contract wins. Supported by a refreshed strategic 
approach, Accelerate+, we will drive further scale and diversification 
across our global business, as we look to deliver sustainable growth 
for our Original Equipment Manufacturing (“OEM”) partners and 
shareholders, and exceptional experiences for our customers.
Our business is characterised by long-term relationships with 
more than 60 OEM partners, which are supported by our 
differentiated technology capabilities and the dedication 
of our highly talented people across 38 markets. Inchcape 
often partners with OEMs in smaller, more complex and 
harder to reach markets, which tend to be higher growth 
with lower motorisation rates. 
As a distributor, we take responsibility for a brand in a given 
market. This means managing vehicles and parts on behalf 
of an OEM from the factory gate or port, and then taking 
care of every part of the value chain, from logistics to sales 
to end users. We also provide Value Added Services for 
customers throughout the lifecycle of a vehicle. 
Financial highlights
2016 to today
Non-financial highlights
+48
Number of distribution OEM partners
+16
Number of distribution markets
£9.3bn
Revenue
(2023: £11.4bn)
6.3%
Adjusted 
operating margin1
(2023: 5.8%)
£462m
Free cash flow1
(2023: £380m)
27%
Return on 
capital employed1
(2023: 26%)
37.5%
Reduction in Scope 
1 and 2 greenhouse 
gas emissions4
£444m
Profit before tax and
adjusting items1
(2023: £502m)
28%
Women in senior 
leadership positions
(2023: 26%)3
761
Reputation.com score
(2023: 702)
2.3%
Battery electric 
vehicles sold
(2023: 1.0%)2
1.  APM (alternative performance measure), see page 190 of the 2024 Annual Report. 
2.  Represented for UK Retail disposal.
3.  Includes the Group Executive Team and its direct reports, see page 69 of the 2024 Annual Report.
4.  Reduction against 2019 revised baseline.
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
03
inchcape.com

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
2 0 2 4 S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y H I G H L I G H T S
THE GLOBAL 
MOBILITY TRANSITION, 
DELIVERED LOCALLY
Delivered policy insights on 
the mobility transition in 
Singapore and Chile
13
markets surveyed to better understand the 
drivers of change in the New Energy Vehicle 
(“NEV") segment
83%
of consumers in Asia Pacific and 73% in 
the Americas look favourably on NEVs
8%
reduction in emissions intensity per 
vehicle, from 40.57 to 37.51 tCO₂e
6
brands with fully BEV/ NEV lineup in 2024
70%+
of our markets have NEV offerings. 
In 2024, we sold BEVs across 28 
markets through 25 brands 
2.3%
We more than doubled the proportion 
of Battery Electric Vehicles (“BEV") sold 
in 2024 (2023: 1.0%)
PLANET
• Reduced Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 7.5% year-onyear and 37.5% since 2019 baseline, in line with targets
• Rolled out four key programmes across our regions 
to drive further emissions reductions
PEOPLE
• Achieved 82% inclusion score in our Be Heard 
Survey, an upper-quartile result
• 30% female workforce representation, and 28% 
female leadership, on track for 30% by 2025 target
PLACES
• Positively impacted 10,000+ community members 
globally, engaging 1,700+ colleagues with a focus 
on social inclusion and road safety
• Launched a new mechanics training programme 
for women in our communities, boosting skills and 
confidence at a local level to enable women to 
pursue careers in the industry 
PRACTICES
• Launched our Open Doors Policy in the Americas, 
to foster transparency 
• Introduced GHG and sustainability questionnaires 
for suppliers, improving our oversight and control 
over environmental impact in the supply chain
Sustainalytics rating 
Inchcape’s role is to support a 
transition that is inclusive and longlasting, with a commitment to work 
collaboratively with stakeholders to 
shape the future of mobility. 
In 2024, we launched a refreshed Sustainability 
Framework that underpins our Accelerate+ strategy. 
This has allowed us to deepen our engagement with 
OEMs, strengthen internal alignment, and broaden 
the scope of sustainability across the business. 
10.0
Negligible risk
Industry Top Rated and Region Top Rated
B
Sustained 
B score
CDP score
AA
Leader
MSCI score
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
04
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market

--- PAGE BREAK ---

C E O S T A T E M E N T : A W O R D F R O M D U N C A N T A I T
DELIVERING A 
MORE SUSTAINABLE 
MOBILITY 
TRANSITION
The transformation underway in the 
automotive industry is unprecedented, driven 
by rapid development of new technologies, 
a fast-moving OEM landscape and continued 
regulatory change. Against this backdrop, the 
need for a global transition towards sustainable 
mobility has become even more important. 
It is clear that automotive distributors, like 
Inchcape, must play an important role in 
driving this transition. 
Access to mobility remains a key driver of 
economic development and social inclusion. 
Research conducted by Inchcape highlights 
that access to mobility is vital for advancing 
social mobility. In many of the markets where 
we operate, vehicle ownership creates 
significant value by connecting people to 
employment, education and communities. 
However, road transport remains accountable 
for 15% of global emissions and as an industry, 
we must therefore continue to support a 
sustainable and long-lasting mobility transition.
At Inchcape, advancing our sustainability 
agenda is not only key to managing risks 
and seizing opportunities, but essential to 
supporting sustainable growth. Sustainability 
is central to how we operate and underpins 
our Accelerate+ strategy – strengthening 
our commercial performance by driving 
efficiencies across the value chain, 
enhancing competitiveness and deepening 
strategic partnerships to deliver value for our 
shareholders, partners, colleagues and the 
communities where we work.
As we look towards 2025 and beyond, we 
remain focused on our purpose: bringing 
mobility to the world’s communities, for 
today, tomorrow and for the better. 
Accelerating the global 
mobility transition
The mobility transition is happening at different 
speeds across markets and must be tailored to 
each market’s unique needs, infrastructure and 
socio-economic context. We are committed to 
driving this transition in a locally responsive way. 
In 2024, reflecting the varying maturity levels 
across markets, we introduced 30 new Battery 
Electric Vehicle (“BEV”) and 25 New Energy 
Vehicle (“NEV”) models in the Americas, 
expanding our portfolio to meet the evolving 
demands of the region. In Asia Pacific, our NEV 
market grew with the expansion of over 700 
service workshops and key partnerships with 
charging infrastructure providers. Meanwhile, in 
Europe and Africa, new distribution agreements 
in Estonia, Ethiopia and Finland strengthened 
our brand portfolio, offering consumers more 
NEV choices tailored to local needs.
By leveraging our local market insight and 
expertise, as well as our global knowledge, 
we are best positioned to enable the rollout 
of new technologies across our markets while 
providing the most sustainable route to market 
for our OEM partners.
2024 – another year of progress
We made significant progress in 2024 as we 
doubled our BEV sales, expanded NEV sales 
to over 70% of our markets, and strengthened 
our brand portfolio by launching six new 
fully electric or NEV brands. Overall, our NEV 
portfolio has evolved, with 25 of our OEM 
partners now offering a broader range of 
NEVs across 28 Inchcape markets.
We actively engaged with OEMs and 
policymakers to share valuable data and 
insights to influence and support their decisionmaking. For example, we recently conducted 
a comprehensive consumer sentiment survey, 
covering over 6,000 customers across 13 
markets in our Asia Pacific and Americas 
regions and we look forward to sharing these 
valuable insights on consumer preferences 
during 2025.
We also focused on upskilling and reskilling 
our colleagues and preparing our operations 
for the increasing demand of new energy 
vehicles. During the year we created 
our Health and Safety Global Centre of 
Excellence, which is streamlining knowledge 
sharing and rolling out industry-leading 
training to align EV health and safety. 
When combined with our comprehensive EV risk 
management programme, this work positions us 
well for the future, ensuring we can continue to 
lead through best-in-class practices.
Building a more sustainable Inchcape
To fulfil our ambition to be the most sustainable 
route to market for our OEMs, I’m pleased 
with the excellent progress we are making 
embedding our Sustainability Framework 
across all areas of our business. A particular 
highlight for me is how we continue to make 
Inchcape a place where every member of our 
global team can develop a career and thrive, 
reinforced by our upper quartile engagement 
scores on Inclusion & Diversity and Wellbeing.
I’m proud of the progress we’ve made in 2024, 
but we know there’s much more to do. The shift 
to sustainable and inclusive mobility is a longterm journey, and while we’ve made great 
strides, we must continue to drive this forward.
I want to extend my thanks to Mike Bowers, who 
now runs our business in the Americas, but who 
was responsible for Sustainability at Inchcape 
since 2023 and the delivery of much of the 
outstanding progress detailed in this report. 
I would also like to congratulate Liz Brown, 
who in April 2025 expanded her role to take 
on Sustainability as Inchcape’s Chief Strategy 
& Sustainability Officer. Liz has over twenty 
years of experience in addressing complex 
business challenges and supporting crossfunctional collaborations, and I look forward to 
her ensuring Inchcape meets its sustainability 
targets and supports our OEM partners with 
their own sustainability goals.
I also want to celebrate and thank all of our 
colleagues at Inchcape who have made this 
outstanding progress possible. As we continue 
to navigate the global mobility transition, it 
is their work in embedding sustainability into 
our daily operations that will enable us to help 
shape a future where sustainable mobility is a 
reality for all. 
As we look towards 2025 and 
beyond, we remain focused on 
our purpose: bringing mobility to 
the world’s communities, for today, 
tomorrow and for the better.
Duncan Tait: Group Chief Executive
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
05
inchcape.com

--- PAGE BREAK ---

ACCELERATING THE 
GLOBAL MOBILITY 
TRANSITION
C S O S T A T E M E N T : A W O R D F R O M L I Z B R O W N
I am excited to lead the next phase 
of Inchcape’s sustainability journey. 
My focus is on deepening the integration 
of our sustainability commitments within 
our Accelerate+ strategy. This is essential 
– not only to our commercial success, but 
to help shape a more equitable, inclusive 
and low-carbon future for mobility.
The pace of change in the mobility 
sector will only continue to accelerate. 
As we navigate this transformation, 
Inchcape remains dedicated to leading 
with insight, responsibility and innovation 
as we drive our business forward with 
Accelerate+, our strategy for growth that is 
underpinned by our Sustainability Framework. 
Stepping into the role of 
Strategy & Sustainability Officer 
I am excited to lead the next phase of 
Inchcape’s sustainability journey. My focus is on 
deepening the integration of our sustainability 
commitments within our Accelerate+ strategy. 
This integration is essential – not only to our 
commercial success, but to our ability to help 
shape a more equitable, inclusive and lowcarbon future for mobility. As we further embed 
sustainability in all roles, markets and functions, 
I aim to bring my previous experience in 
supporting cross-functional collaboration 
to develop solutions to the challenges we 
will encounter. 
It is not just our global operations and 
dedicated colleagues that will enable 
Inchcape to deliver this ambition, but the 
strong relationships we have built with over 
60 OEM partners across 38 markets. Having 
overseen these relationships with our OEM 
partners throughout my time at Inchcape, I 
can attest to the brilliant outcomes achieved 
when we share our insights, enable new 
technologies across markets, and support 
our OEM partners’ ambitions by providing 
the most sustainable route to market. 
Delivering on our ambition 
In 2024, we launched our evolved Sustainability 
Framework designed to deepen engagement 
with OEMs, strengthen internal alignment, and 
broaden the scope of sustainability across the 
business. The framework is centred around 
three key areas of focus:
• Delivering local insight and global data to 
help stakeholders navigate change; 
• Enabling new technologies, with the training, 
aftersales and infrastructure needed to 
support adoption; and 
• Becoming the most sustainable route to 
market for our OEM partners through our four 
pillars: Planet, People, Places and Practices. 
As OEM’s look to Inchcape as their partner of 
choice, we remain committed to advancing 
sustainable practices across our operations. 
I’m proud to highlight a few key achievements 
across our four pillars, showcasing how 
Inchcape is driving meaningful impact.
Planet: We reduced Scope 1 and 2 emissions 
by 7.5% year-on-year and 37.5% since 2019 – 
on track to meet our 46% reduction target by 
2030 – supported by four key decarbonisation 
and energy efficiency programmes across the 
Americas, Asia Pacific and Europe and Africa.
In 2024, we also conducted a Scope 3 SBTi 
target feasibility analysis, which concluded 
that setting a formal target is not feasible 
at this stage due to limited control over key 
categories, varied market trajectories, and 
SBTi requirements. However, the assessment 
provided valuable insights into how the transition 
is unfolding across our markets. We continue 
to take decisive action – launching six new 
BEV and NEV brands, doubling our BEV share, 
expanding NEV sales to over 70% of markets, 
and aligning with OEMs, 89% of whom now 
have net zero targets. These efforts strengthen 
our role as a partner of choice, support business 
optimisations and emissions reduction. 
People: In 2024, we focused on enhancing 
inclusive hiring and talent development 
programmes to expand opportunities for 
underrepresented groups, ensuring we attract, 
retain and develop top talent globally. We 
continue to build a culture of inclusion where 
every colleague can thrive, reflected in our 
82% inclusion score from the Be Heard survey, 
which continues to rank in the upper quartile. 
We also launched our Employee Value 
Proposition, demonstrating how our 
colleagues realise their full potential by working 
collaboratively with incredible Inchcapers to 
help shape the future of mobility, grow our global 
business and transform tomorrow, together. 
Places: We deepened our community impact 
through 21+ global road safety initiatives, 
including partnerships that bring to life the 
road safety visions of our OEM partners, such as 
Subaru in Australia and New Zealand. We also 
advanced social inclusion with programmes 
like a women’s mechanic training course in 
Uruguay. Our initiatives positively impacted 
10,000+ community members and engaged 
1,700+ colleagues.
Practices: We strengthened our governance 
in 2024, launching the Open Doors policy 
in the Americas to foster transparency and 
trust. We also updated our Code of Conduct 
and introduced a GHG and sustainability 
supplier questionnaire, reinforcing high-integrity 
practices across our operations.
Our way forward: 
Continuing our mobility transition 
It is an honour to take on the role of Chief 
Sustainability Officer at this pivotal moment for 
our industry. First and foremost, I would like to 
extend my sincere gratitude to Mike Bowers, 
my predecessor in this role, for his dedication 
and leadership, which have been instrumental 
in establishing the strong foundation reflected 
in this report. 
The journey is far from over, but with the 
dedication of our teams, the strength of our 
partnerships and the clarity of our vision, I am 
confident that Inchcape will continue to lead 
the way in sustainably growing our global 
operations across markets. I look forward to 
working together to build a more sustainable 
mobility future for all. 
Liz Brown: Chief Strategy and Sustainability Officer
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
06
inchcape.com

--- PAGE BREAK ---

08
Our business model
09
Our approach to sustainability
12
Sustainability framework
13
Accelerate+: Driving sustainable growth 
15
Working in partnership with OEMs
16
Double materiality assessment
OUR BUSINESS
THE LEADING 
INDEPENDENT 
GLOBAL 
AUTOMOTIVE 
DISTRIBUTOR 
02
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
07
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market

--- PAGE BREAK ---

O U R B U S I N E S S M O D E L
WHAT WE DO
Our Distribution Excellence 
approach connects the 
products of our OEM partners 
with consumers, by leveraging 
our capabilities across the 
value chain
Inchcape often partners with OEMs in smaller, more 
complex and harder to reach markets, which tend 
to be higher growth with lower motorisation rates. 
As a distributor, we take responsibility for a brand in a 
given market. This means managing the vehicles and 
parts from the OEM at the factory gate or port and 
take care of every bit of the value chain on behalf 
of the OEM, from logistics to sale to end users.
We also provide Value Added Services for 
customers throughout the lifecycle of a vehicle. 
PRODUCT 
PLANNING
01
BRAND AND 
MARKETING
03
DIGITAL RETAIL
05
LOGISTICS
02
VALUE ADDED 
SERVICES
06
Bringing mobility to the 
world’s communities for today, 
for tomorrow and for the better
TO READ MORE ABOUT OUR 
BUSINESS IN OUR ANNUAL REPORT.
CLICK OR SCAN THE QR CODE
Our purpose
Our value chain
CHANNEL 
MANAGEMENT
04
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
08
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market

--- PAGE BREAK ---

O U R A P P R O A C H T O S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y 
MOBILITY IS 
A POWERFUL 
DRIVER OF SOCIAL 
INCLUSION
Reliable and affordable transport connects individuals 
to education, healthcare, employment, and their 
communities – opening up opportunities that might 
otherwise be out of reach, and enriching lives through 
greater access, inclusion and choice. As a result, mobility 
solutions have a multiplier effect: stimulating job creation, 
increasing productivity and enhancing social equity. 
Our role at Inchcape is to apply our global expertise and 
leverage our local understanding to tailor brand portfolios 
to meet the unique social, cultural and economic 
needs of each market. By offering mobility solutions that 
address diverse economic, lifestyle factors and local 
preferences, we contribute to expanding access to 
mobility for individuals and communities worldwide.
In 2024, we took the first steps to measure the 
impact of vehicle ownership by conducting a 
Consumer Sentiment Survey across 13 markets. 
The goal was to better understand the key drivers 
behind vehicle ownership and attitudes towards 
NEVs. The findings reveal that cars are widely seen 
as enablers of opportunity and improved lifestyles.
THE INDUSTRY 
IS UNDERGOING 
A TRANSITION
Transport contributes around 15% of global greenhouse 
gas emissions (“GHGs”) – and personal passenger vehicles 
account for nearly half of that impact. Without action, 
emissions from road transport are set to rise, putting 
climate goals further out of reach. Decarbonising the 
automotive sector is critical to address climate change.
The automotive industry is rising to the challenge. 
Today’s cars are significantly more fuel-efficient and 
emission-efficient than ever before, regardless of the 
powertrain, reflecting OEMs’ strong commitment to 
sustainability and environmental responsibility.
Since 2019, we have made strong progress in 
reducing emissions across our operations and 
portfolio, reducing our direct emissions by 37.5% 
compared to our 2019 baseline and driving emissions 
reductions and efficiencies across our value chain. 
01
02
6
purely BEVs or NEVs 
brands introduced in 2024
81
%
of respondents in Americas agreed 
that owning a car provides better job 
opportunities, and 86% believe it enhances 
their lifestyle and that of their families.
70%+
of our markets have NEV offerings
71
%
of respondents in Asia Pacific said 
they can’t imagine life without a car, 
and 40% stated that it enhances their 
quality of life.
89%
of our OEMs have Scope 3 targets, 
and over half of them electrification targets
8%
reduction in emissions 
intensity per vehicle
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
09
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market

--- PAGE BREAK ---

O U R A P P R O A C H T O S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y 
03
NAVIGATING THE 
TRANSITION WITH 
LOCAL FLEXIBILITY 
The mobility transition is unfolding at different speeds 
across the world, shaped by local infrastructure, 
economics, consumer preferences and policy 
ambition. While some markets are pushing rapidly 
towards full electrification, others require a more 
phased approach – blending low- and zero-emission 
technologies in line with their unique contexts. There is 
no one-size-fits-all solution, and one of the biggest, most 
complex challenges for the industry today is enabling 
the transition in a way that is inclusive and effective.
Inchcape is committed to playing a key role in enabling 
an inclusive transition, tailored to the unique needs of 
each of our markets. Our global team of around 17,000 
colleagues brings deep local insight to every market 
we serve. In close partnership with more than 60 OEMs, 
and powered by our advanced digital platforms, 
we deliver solutions to our OEM partners that reflect 
the specific needs and realities of each market. Our 
approach is rooted in flexibility, insight and partnership.
3
new distribution agreements 
in Europe and Africa
+30 
BEV
+25 
NEV
model introduction in the Americas
SUCCESSFUL 
PARTNERSHIPS
to address charging infrastructure 
barriers and NEV upskilling in Asia Pacific
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
10
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market

--- PAGE BREAK ---

I N C H C A P E ’ S A P P R O A C H T O D E L I V E R I N G T H E M O B I L I T Y T R A N S I T I O N
THE GLOBAL 
MOBILITY TRANSITION, 
DELIVERED LOCALLY
Bringing mobility to the world’s 
communities for today, for tomorrow 
and for the better 
The global mobility transition, 
delivered locally
Providing the most sustainable route-to-market 
Delivering insights
PLANET
PEOPLE
PLACES
PRACTICES
Enabling new technologies
OUR PURPOSE
OUR 
SUSTAINABILITY 
AMBITION
HOW WE DELIVER OUR AMBITION
With our global scale, market reach and infrastructure, 
we are uniquely positioned to enable an inclusive, 
lasting transition, working with stakeholders to make 
sustainable mobility a reality for all.
Our role 
In 2024, we evolved our approach to how we can positively 
contribute to the mobility transition. Launched alongside 
the refreshed Accelerate+ strategy, the framework reflects 
our commitment to addressing evolving business challenges 
while meeting the rising expectations of stakeholders across 
our global footprint.
Our framework has enabled deeper integration across 
the business and strengthened engagement with key 
stakeholders. It sets out our ambition to shape the future of 
mobility and accelerate the global mobility transition in a 
way that is inclusive and locally responsive. We recognise 
that the transition is not uniform, and Inchcape’s role is to 
ensure that no market is left behind, and all customers can 
access the important benefits of mobility.
As the industry steps up to meet the demands of sustainable 
and inclusive mobility, so are we – leveraging our local 
expertise, data capabilities and trusted partnerships to 
deliver progress that is both meaningful and equitable.
Our framework has three areas of focus: delivering 
insights, enabling new technologies and providing 
the most sustainable route to market. We deliver on 
our ambition to provide the most sustainable route to 
market through four pillars – Planet, People, Places and 
Practices. These guide our work to reduce environmental 
impact, drive innovation, and uphold responsible business 
practices – all while ensuring that change works for the 
communities we serve.
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
11
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market

--- PAGE BREAK ---

S U S T A I N A B I L I T Y F R A M E W O R K
CLOSING THE 
KNOWLEDGE GAP
ACCELERATING 
SUSTAINABLE 
MOBILITY
PROVIDING THE 
MOST SUSTAINABLE 
ROUTE TO MARKET
We aim to be the leading authority on the 
mobility transition in our markets – empowering 
our OEM partners, policymakers and customers 
with data-led insights tailored to local realities, 
with a global perspective.
• Our global team of around 17,000 colleagues brings 
local insights to support decision-making.
• 
Our digital analytics platforms provide powerful intelligence on 
consumer behaviour, EV adoption and infrastructure readiness.
• We help close the data and knowledge gap in our markets by 
sharing insights that support inclusive market-specific solutions.
Our ambition is to provide the most sustainable 
route to market. By that, we mean that we will 
be a low carbon, people-focused, community 
driven and high-integrity route to market 
for OEM partners globally. Our progress is 
monitored through our four pillars. 
• Planet: We have committed to reducing our absolute Scope 1 and 2 
greenhouse gas emissions by 46% by 2030 (vs 2019), and to achieving 
net zero across these Scopes by 2040. We are also continuing to 
improve visibility over our Scope 3 emissions, and ensuring the mobility 
transition inclusive and feasible for all markets – with no customer or 
market left behind.
• People: We are building a more inclusive and resilient organisation, 
with targets to reach 30% female representation in senior leadership 
by the end of 2025. In parallel, we aim to retain 90% of emerging and 
high-potential talent, ensuring we continue to grow the capabilities 
needed to lead the future of mobility.
• Places: We are committed to positively contributing to the 
communities we operate in, ensuring we are driving safe mobility 
and social inclusion across our markets.
• Practices: We are future-proofing our business practices by 
strengthening our policies, code of conduct, and cybersecurity.
We enable the adoption of new energy 
vehicles by creating the conditions for 
low-emission technologies to thrive.
• We provide end-to-end support in rollout, servicing 
and lifecycle management, adapted to each 
local market across all powertrain options.
• We invest in upskilling our people to ensure they can offer 
safe, relevant and customer-centred EV support.
• We promote solutions that are both technologically 
advanced and socially inclusive recognising that affordability, 
accessibility and infrastructure vary across regions.
READ MORE P. 21
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
READ MORE P. 17
READ MORE P. 27
 
13
markets surveyed to better 
understand the drivers of change 
in the NEV segment
70%+
of our markets have NEV offerings. 
In 2024, we sold BEVs across 
28 markets through 25 brands
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
12
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market

--- PAGE BREAK ---

A C C E L E R A T E + : D R I V I N G S U S T A I N A B L E G R O W T H
DRIVING 
SUSTAINABLE 
GROWTH
MEET THE EXPERTS 
DRIVING INCHCAPE’S 
SUSTAINABLE GROWTH
To deliver sustainable growth, Accelerate+ focuses 
on expanding our scale through acquisitions, new 
contracts and optimising our global operations with 
Distribution Excellence and Value-Added Services. 
This includes enhancing our parts and finance and 
insurance offerings, supporting the NEV transition 
and strengthening our used car proposition. 
Sustainability is woven in to the enablers of our 
strategy – strong sustainability performance will help 
us develop a culture to attract and retain the best 
talent, encourage our investment in technological 
capabilities to stay ahead of the curve, support our 
relationships with OEM partners and underscore our 
acquisition and integration activities.
Our refreshed Accelerate+ strategy 
strengthens Inchcape’s position as the 
world’s leading automotive distributor, 
ensuring we remain a brilliant partner 
for OEMs and deliver exceptional 
customer experiences.
Since launching our original Accelerate strategy in 
2021, the external sustainability, economic and political 
landscape has shifted, with rising inflation, evolving 
consumer confidence, and a more gradual transition to 
electric vehicles than expected. OEMs are also seeking 
greater efficiencies, while technology continues to 
advance rapidly.
Andrea Meneghetti Sheppard leads the company’s 
ESG strategy, working closely with regional teams 
to guide the actions and initiatives that embed 
sustainability across our operations – from emissions 
reduction to responsible business practices.
Andrea Meneghetti Sheppard: 
Group Sustainability Manager
Oron Amsalem: Group Strategy and 
OEM Business Development Director
Oron Amsalem, a key architect of Accelerate+, 
leads Inchcape’s growth and transformation strategy, 
positioning the Company at the forefront of market 
expansion, digital innovation and the NEV transition.
Together, they discuss how Accelerate+ and 
sustainability work hand-in-hand, driving a low-carbon, 
responsible and future-ready mobility ecosystem.
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
13
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market

--- PAGE BREAK ---

A C C E L E R A T E + : D R I V I N G S U S T A I N A B L E G R O W T H
What market challenges 
led to the development 
of Accelerate+?
What early highlights have 
we seen from Accelerate+?
How does Accelerate+ 
support sustainability when 
integrating new businesses?
How does sustainability 
fit into Accelerate+?
What steps is Inchcape taking 
to integrate sustainability into 
its business operations?
The automotive industry is evolving at an unprecedented 
pace. NEVs are gaining market share at different rates 
across markets, OEMs are prioritising efficiency and 
sustainability and regulatory landscapes are shifting. We 
developed Accelerate+ to ensure Inchcape stays ahead – 
driving growth and market penetration through acquisitions, 
contract wins and operational excellence while supporting 
the NEV transition.
Beyond successfully rolling out Accelerate+ across our 
markets in 2024, we secured 22 new distribution contracts, 
including brand partnerships with NEV brands such as 
DEEPAL in Australia and expanded BYD distribution in Estonia 
and Ethiopia. These wins grow our footprint and reinforce 
our role in supporting the global mobility transition.
With each acquisition, we embed our approach to 
sustainability from day one – across reporting, optimising 
energy use or aligning with our ESG goals. In the Americas, 
our One Inchcape Ambassadors played a key role in 
integrating Derco, our biggest acquisition in more than 50 
years, to retain the best talent, and we continue refining this 
approach to scale sustainability across all new markets.
Sustainability is woven into every aspect of Accelerate+. 
As a global distributor, we play a pivotal role in enabling 
low-carbon mobility – helping our markets prepare for the 
adoption of NEVs and emerging technologies, reducing 
our own emissions and providing the lowest carbon route 
to market. 
By scaling through new contract wins, we’re able to shape 
a future-fit portfolio that reflects the evolving needs of each 
market. Through optimisation, we drive efficiency, foster 
innovation and promote best practice by raising standards 
and supporting a more sustainable mobility ecosystem. 
Our ambition is clear: provide the most sustainable route to 
market for our partners while ensuring profitability and longterm resilience. As we grow, so too does our ability to deliver 
meaningful impact. 
We’re embedding sustainability in procurement, logistics 
and aftersales – from minimising transport emissions to 
expanding our EV servicing capabilities. We will also be 
using a new platform to analyse emissions across all sites and 
drive greater transparency and accountability. Integrating 
sustainability into our strategic function also marks a step 
forward, bringing it closer to the core of the business and 
unlocking new opportunities to deliver value for our OEM 
partners and customers.
Q
Q
Q
Q
Q
Oron Amsalem
Oron Amsalem
Andrea Meneghetti Sheppard
Andrea Meneghetti Sheppard
Andrea Meneghetti Sheppard
How is digital transformation 
supporting sustainability 
within Accelerate+?
Data and analytics are key to optimising our supply chain, 
energy use, and EV strategy. Our Digital Analytics Platform 
("DAP") provides insights into EV adoption trends, allowing 
us to tailor our market approach. AI-powered customer 
experiences also helps us reduce operational inefficiencies 
and improve sustainability outcomes.
Q
Oron Amsalem
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
14
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market

--- PAGE BREAK ---

At Inchcape, we are proud of our 60+ year 
partnership with Suzuki, who we partner with 
globally across nine markets in our Asia Pacific 
and Americas Region. 
Suzuki has made a significant contribution to the social and 
economic development of many regions over the years, 
by consistently innovating products and initiatives that 
align with market demands and customer preferences. 
These innovations are not only pivotal in addressing the 
industry’s transition to low-carbon transportation solutions, 
but also play a critical role in shaping a sustainable and 
inclusive future for mobility.
As part of its Suzuki Environmental Plan 2025, Suzuki has set 
a target to reduce CO2 emissions from new vehicles by 
30% compared to FY2010 levels and has already achieved 
a 25.8% reduction. Consistent reductions in average car 
weight over time have enhanced energy efficiency in both 
the manufacturing process and the user phase. By focusing 
on the development of lighter vehicles across a range 
of lifestyle needs and price points, Suzuki has created 
a uniquely inclusive line-up that addresses the diverse 
demands across our APAC and Americas regions.
In 2024, we launched five new energy vehicle models in the 
Americas and celebrated 40 years of Suzuki in Bolivia, where 
the brand became the top-seller for Inchcape that year. In 
Chile, Suzuki ranked second in NEV sales, achieving 22% of 
market share. Meanwhile, in Colombia, Suzuki holds 60% of 
the market share in Mild Hybrid Electric Vehicles (“MHEV").
In 2022 Inchcape partnered with Singapore Polytechnic 
to support the development of the skills and technologies 
required for the transition. To date, more than 230 
employees have completed an EV 101 & EV Fundamentals 
course, equipping them with essential skills and knowledge 
to thrive in the evolving EV landscape. Together we have 
also supported the rollout of the National Electric Vehicle 
Specialist Safety Certification, developed by the Land 
Transport Authority, to educate technicians, professionals 
and the broader community in advancing EV safety and 
skills. 
W O R K I N G I N PA R T N E R S H I P W I T H O E M S 
C A S E S T U D Y
Suzuki will continue to drive innovations that 
accelerate the global mobility transition. One 
example is their biogas programme in India 
which transforms cow dung into lower-emission 
fuel, supporting low carbon transportation while 
creating new social mobility opportunities.
We are proud and excited to continue working 
with our OEM partners, who are constantly 
evolving to meet the demands of the future. 
At Inchcape we will continue working towards 
accelerating the mobility transition, leveraging 
our deep local knowledge. 
Our partnership with Suzuki allows us to 
scale sustainable mobility solutions globally. 
Together, we’re ensuring that vehicles and 
technologies are not only environmentally 
conscious, but also practical and 
accessible in diverse local context.
Emilio Azcarrunz: Automotive VP, Americas
Looking forward
ACCELERATING THE 
GLOBAL MOBILITY 
TRANSITION IN 
PARTNERSHIP
Our ambition to deliver the global 
mobility transition needs close 
collaboration with our OEM partners, 
who develop transition innovations that 
meet the needs of the markets and the 
communities in which we are present. 
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
15
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market

--- PAGE BREAK ---

LOW
LOW
MEDIUM
MEDIUM
Outward Impact
Inward Impact
HIGH
HIGH
1
6
12
1
1
10
13
5
2
4
14
9
3
7
8
M A T E R I A L I T Y
OUR DOUBLE 
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
Guiding our actions 
As a global business, Inchcape impacts and is impacted 
by a wide range of potential environmental, social and 
governance-related issues. Assessing, prioritising and 
understanding our part to play in these issues is essential in 
guiding how we address sustainability and provide the most 
sustainable route to market. 
Our materiality assessment, which we review annually, 
guides the disclosures we make in our sustainability 
reporting and ensures we’re taking action on the issues most 
important to stakeholders. In 2024, we conducted further 
engagement with stakeholders to update our assessment 
to ensure compliance with the European Union’s Corporate 
Sustainability Reporting Directive (“CSRD") regulation, the 
most comprehensive standard for assessments. For more 
details on how the materiality assessment was conducted, 
please refer to our 2023 Sustainability Report.
Stakeholders
How we engage
OEM partners
• Top-to-top relationship building with new partners 
acquired through M&A 
• Regular top-to-top executive management 
meetings, including sharing of Sustainability 
Framework 
• Market-level operational meetings
• Pan-market brand development meetings
Customers
• Daily reporting of customer feedback 
• Day-to-day provision of advice and knowledge to 
customer and dealer networks
• Surveys at market level
Colleagues
• Annual communications and engagement plan 
endorsed by the Executive Team.
• ‘Be Heard’ colleague experience survey 
(see page 46) 
• One Inchcape performance 
management framework
• Global and regional leadership and development 
programmes (see pages 40-42)
• Colleague engagement forums
Shareholders 
• Regular dialogue at conferences and 
roadshows, including between shareholders and 
Inchcape’s Board
• Capital Markets Day, results and webinars
• Reporting including Annual Report
Communities
• Market-specific activity co-ordinated 
by our teams at a local level 
• Group-level support for extraordinary events 
affecting our market communities
• Engagement through local initiatives including 
partnerships with NGOs (see Places pillar, page 47)
MATERIALITY 
MATRIX
Issues mapped in the top right sections of the matrix are 
considered material for the purposes of GRI reporting. Please 
see our appendix on page 62 to see how these are mapped 
to GRI standards. 
Planet
People
Places
Practices
5
Sustainable mobility
10 Circularity
1
1 GHG emissions (Direct)
13 GHG emissions (indirect)
2
Direct community impact
4
Road safety
9
Shared value systems
14 Indirect community impact
1
Wellbeing, health and safety
6
Learning and development
12 Inclusion, diversity and equity
3
Cybersecurity
7
Reasonable governance
8
Partners’ ESG performance
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
16
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
17
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling Technologies
Sustainable route to market
58%
of consumers agree that car ownership 
is essential to improving quality of life
78%
of respondents express a favourable 
attitude toward NEVs
55%
cite environmental benefits as the 
top reason to purchase a NEV in both 
Asia Pacific and the Americas region
markets surveyed in our 
Consumer sentiment survey
As the leading automotive distributor, we combine local 
insights with a global understanding of how the mobility 
transition is unfolding across our markets. By leveraging 
this knowledge, we are well positioned to support 
and accelerate the transition.
Konstantin Demidenko: FP&A Business Partner, Europe & Africa
DELIVERING INSIGHTS
WE BRING 
INSIGHTS FROM 
ACROSS DIFFERENT 
GEOGRAPHIES
03
18
Understanding consumers of the mobility transition
19
Delivering insights to policymakers
20
Supporting Chile’s mobility transition 
through policy advice
13

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
18
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling Technologies
Sustainable route to market
inchcape.com
U N D E R S T A N D I N G T H E C O N S U M E R S O F T H E M O B I L I T Y T R A N S I T I O N
DRIVERS OF CHANGE: 
LEARNINGS FROM 
OUR CONSUMER 
SENTIMENT SURVEY
At the end of 2024, Inchcape launched the ‘Drivers 
of Change’ initiative, and in January 2025 conducted 
quantitative surveys of vehicle consumers, including current 
and future car drivers, across 13 countries in the Americas 
and APAC to explore consumer sentiment toward NEVs 
and gain deeper insights into the future of mobility.
One of the key findings is that consumer sentiment toward 
NEVs is overwhelmingly positive across both regions 
(83% in Asia Pacific, 73% in the Americas). However, 
the journey to adoption is far from uniform, shaped 
by each country’s unique mix of economic realities, 
environmental priorities and technological readiness.
Across all markets, environmental benefits are the 
leading purchase driver, cited by 55% in both Asia 
Pacific and Latin America, followed closely by cost 
of ownership, energy efficiency and technology 
– highlighting a mix of environmental, economic 
and practical motivations behind adoption.
Price remains the main barrier to the adoption of NEVs. 
Positively, there is a strong willingness to pay more – half 
of Asia Pacific respondents and 88% in Latin America 
say they’d pay a premium for an NEV over an internal 
combustion vehicle, signalling a shift toward cleaner mobility. 
Despite the optimism, consumers in all countries still show 
concerns about battery life, charging infrastructure and 
safety, which impact consumer confidence in NEVs. 
81%
of those surveyed in the Americas agree 
that cars provide crucial access to job 
opportunities, and 71% in Asia Pacific 
say they couldn’t live without a car.
55%
cite environmental benefits as the 
top reason to purchase a NEV in 
both Asia Pacific and the Americas.
88%
of those surveyed in the Americas, 
and half of Asia Pacific respondents 
say they’d pay a premium for an NEV 
over an ICE vehicle.
57%
of those surveyed in the Asia Pacific 
expect to own an NEV in the future.
There is strong market potential for NEVs in Asia Pacific, 
where 45% of respondents would choose one as a second 
vehicle and 57% expect to own one in the future. In the 
Americas, ICE vehicles remain dominant, with two-thirds 
preferring them for their next purchase, as awareness of NEV 
technologies remains limited in the region. This gap presents 
a clear opportunity for us and our OEM partners to lead 
in consumer education, address key concerns and build 
trust to accelerate the shift toward sustainable mobility.
Economic incentives are a key driver for NEV adoption. 
In the Americas, consumers expect tangible benefites 
and expressed a preference for lower circulation fees 
(52%) as one key incentive. In Asia Pacific, there is a 
strong opportunity to increase awareness, as 24% have 
yet to be informed of government initiatives. With the 
right focus, these incentives and improving public 
awareness can play a pivotal role in accelerating 
the transition to NEVs across both regions.
The Drivers of Change survey confirms that mobility 
continues to be a fundamental enabler of social and 
economic progress across our markets. Consumers in 
both Asia Pacific and the Americas see car ownership 
not just as a convenience, but as essential to accessing 
education, employment and broader opportunities. 
This is a clear opportunity for Inchcape, our OEM 
partners and policymakers to lead the transition.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
19
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling Technologies
Sustainable route to market
inchcape.com
D E L I V E R I N G I N S I G H T S T O P O L I C Y M A K E R S
SUPPORTING 
POLICYMAKERS 
IN THE MOBILITY 
TRANSITION
Inchcape collaborates with 
policymakers across our markets to 
share insights that facilitate the mobility 
transition. By leveraging our deep local 
expertise and data-driven approach, 
Inchcape helps bridge knowledge 
gaps, ensuring that policies reflect 
the unique needs of diverse markets.
We engage with policymakers for a variety of reasons 
– through continued engagement, we can help to 
shape conversation abut key challenges, bring forward 
relevant policy ideas for the mobility transition and inform 
future decisions. Through strategic engagement, we 
support the adoption of sustainable mobility solutions 
that align with both regulatory goals and real-world 
infrastructure capabilities.
Inchcape’s role in a people-centred 
transport system
Despite Singapore’s world-class public transport, gaps 
in last-mile connectivity persist, driving demand for 
diverse transport options such as taxis, ride-hailing 
and carpooling. As Singapore moves towards a more 
sustainable transport system, Inchcape has conducted 
two meetings to support Singapore’s long-term vision.
During our first meeting, Inchcape and the 
representatives from LTA explored the implications of 
Master Plan 2040, upcoming regulatory frameworks for 
PHVs and Shared Transport and the vision for the future 
of NEVs, aiming to build a shared understanding of 
the challenges and where Inchcape can support the 
government’s goals in the future. 
Our second meeting was with our local industry peers 
at SP Group, who are developing Singapore’s largest 
public EV charging network. The meeting focused 
on strategic insight-sharing around the evolving EV 
landscape, both locally and globally. Through its 
OEM partnerships, Inchcape aims to provide a broad 
EV portfolio aligned with Singapore’s electrification 
strategy, ensuring accessible sustainable transport for 
residents and businesses.
Inchcape remains committed to supporting Singapore’s 
transition to an efficient, sustainable transport 
ecosystem. By working closely with government 
agencies, industry stakeholders and OEM partners, 
Inchcape drives progress towards a smarter, greener 
and more connected urban mobility future.
S P O T L I G H T
DRIVING 
SINGAPORE’S 
MOBILITY TRANSITION

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
20
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling Technologies
Sustainable route to market
D E L I V E R I N G I N S I G H T S T O P O L I C Y M A K E R S
SUPPORTING 
CHILE’S MOBILITY 
TRANSITION 
THROUGH 
POLICY ADVICE
As the market leader in Chile’s automotive sector, 
Inchcape holds a 25% market share, with an even 
stronger position in the BEV segment, where our 
brands account for approximately 27% of the NEVs 
sales. However, despite this leadership, Chile’s BEV 
market remains in its early stages, with a penetration 
still below 4%. While there is significant momentum to 
drive energy efficiency and transition towards zeroemission mobility, achieving national sustainability 
goals remains a challenge. 
Chile’s pathway to zero-emission mobility must 
be tailored to its unique economic, geographic 
and social realities. Simply replicating policies 
from more developed markets may not be 
viable. To ensure a smoother and more inclusive 
transition, Chile needs a well-designed roadmap 
that considers infrastructure readiness, consumer 
adoption and regulatory incentives. 
Recognising the need for informed, market-specific 
policy design, Inchcape partnered with a third-party 
consultancy to develop a comprehensive white paper 
on global best practices for EV adoption. This included: 
• A comparative analysis of international legislation 
and incentive frameworks; 
• An assessment of Chile’s legal, infrastructure and 
consumer landscape; and
• Policy recommendations designed to accelerate 
Chile’s transition efficiently and effectively. 
By engaging with policymakers and stakeholders from 
the automotive, infrastructure and energy industries, 
Inchcape contributed valuable insights that helped 
shape a more pragmatic and technology-neutral 
approach to decarbonising mobility in Chile.
1. Expanded charging Infrastructure: Strengthening 
Chile’s nationwide charging network to improve 
reliability and accessibility, particularly in rural and 
remote areas, fostering consumer confidence in 
EV adoption. 
2. Targeted incentives without excessive fiscal burden: 
Shifting away from direct financial subsidies, which 
may not be sustainable for Chile’s economic 
framework, and exploring non-monetary incentives 
such as exclusive lanes and parking spaces for EVs, 
reduced tolls and registration fees, and preferential 
access to congestion zones. 
3. Policy flexibility for hybrid and low-emission 
vehicles: Adopting a technology-neutral approach 
that considers hybrid vehicles and alternative lowemission solutions and aligning mobility policies with 
broader renewable energy expansion efforts to 
ensure that a cleaner grid powers EVs. 
4. Investment in public education and workforce 
training: Establishing technical training programmes 
to equip the workforce with the skills needed for the 
growing EV ecosystem and educate consumers on 
the benefits and practicalities of EV ownership.
25%
market share in Chile’s 
automotive sector
The challenge
The Inchcape approach
Our recommendations include
C A S E S T U D Y
Looking forward
We delivered our paper to the Ministry of Energy, 
which is a strong start to our relationship with the 
department making crucial decisions about Chile’s 
transition pathway and future energy mix. We feel 
confident that our development of this white paper, 
and continued engagement with policymakers in 
Chile, can help leverage our deep market expertise 
and global insights in ways that support effective 
policy solutions.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
21
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
22
Global mobility transition, delivered locally
24
Rolling out new technologies
25
Nurturing the future of EV talent
26
Safely delivering the mobility transition
700+
service workshops established, supported 
by key partnerships with charging 
infrastructure providers in Asia Pacific
3 NEW
distribution agreements with pure 
BEV and NEV brands expanded 
our portfolio in Europe and Africa
25
OEM partners now offer NEV lineups 
across more than 70%+ of our markets
30
new BEV and 25 new NEV models 
launched in the Americas to meet 
evolving consumer demand
Our success is more than just providing 
new brands, it's about making sure 
the market is ready through training, 
infrastructure and to meet the needs 
of consumers.
Ellen Lubi: Project Manager DDC, Philippines
ENABLING TECHNOLOGIES
ROLLING OUT NEW 
TECHNOLOGIES IN 
OUR MARKETS
04

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
22
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
E N A B L I N G N E W T E C H N O L O G I E S : M A R K E T - BY - M A R K E T E N G A G E M E N T O N T H E T R A N S I T I O N
The mobility transition is unfolding at 
different speeds across the world, 
influenced by local infrastructure, 
consumer behaviour and 
regulatory environments. 
While some markets are accelerating towards full 
electrification, others require a more gradual approach, 
integrating a mix of technologies to meet their unique 
needs. There is no single solution that fits every market, which 
is why flexibility and local expertise are essential in delivering 
sustainable mobility.
At Inchcape, we are committed to driving the mobility 
transition in a way that works for each market. We work with 
our markets to help them prepare for the mobility transition, 
and help our OEM partners build portfolios based on the 
market’s NEV and transition maturity. 
THE GLOBAL 
MOBILITY 
TRANSITION, 
DELIVERED 
LOCALLY
AMERICAS
Across markets in the Americas, we are 
delivering new technologies beyond 
average pace of the mobility transition. 
This is a brilliant showcase of our ability 
to deliver the right technology at the 
moment the market is ready.
Mike Bowers CEO, Americas
In the Americas, Inchcape signed 14 new distribution 
agreements in 2024, expanding and diversifying its 
portfolio across the region. This included the introduction 
of 25 NEV models and 30 BEV models, ranging from 
accessible entry-level options to high-end premium 
vehicles – designed to meet the evolving needs of our 
diverse customer segments across the region.
Performance in key markets has been particularly strong 
in 2024. In Chile, we achieved a 43.7% share of the NEV 
segment – well above our total market share of 25% – 
and secured 28.2% of the BEV segment. Similarly in Peru, 
our BEV market share reached 17.3%, underscoring the 
region’s strong momentum in driving sustainable mobility.
14 
new distribution agreements in 2024 55
new BEV and NEV models introduced to the region
The Americas region has a team focused on analysing the 
demands of each market, to understand how to shape the 
future of mobility. Their goal is to accelerate NEV adoption 
and seize opportunities as they arise. In 2024, the team 
focused on market readiness, training and education, 
identifying new revenue streams, cross-checking demand, 
and exploring synergies and added value. A market 
readiness matrix was introduced to assess and track the key 
drivers of electromobility across the region, enabling us to 
adapt our approach to each country’s unique conditions.
To further embed NEV strategy across the region, Inchcape 
launched the 'NEV Community' – a cross-functional network 
of more than 50 colleagues from Commercial, Marketing, 
Technical, ESG, HSE, Facilities, Communications, Public Affairs 
and Business Intelligence teams. This initiative is fostering 
collaboration, sharing best practice and ensuring a unified 
and agile approach to driving the energy transition in each 
market across the region.

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
23
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
E N A B L I N G N E W T E C H N O L O G I E S : M A R K E T - BY - M A R K E T E N G A G E M E N T O N T H E T R A N S I T I O N
In late 2022, we welcomed BEV and PHEV 
manufacturer BYD into our portfolio in Belgium 
and Luxembourg, strengthening our presence 
in a rapidly growing market. This partnership has 
positioned us well in the BEV segment that grew 
by 37% in 2024 compared to the previous year. 
In 2024, BYD achieved a 4.5% market share in the 
private BEV segment. Additionally, BYD launched 
a PHEV offering in 2024, which is performing 
strongly. Favourable EV taxation policies – 
particularly for PHEV – are driving demand and 
are expected to further boost NEV's market 
share into 2025.
In 2024, we expanded our partnership with 
BYD, launching in both Estonia and Ethiopia. 
In Ethiopia, this marked a significant step in 
strengthening our regional presence as BEV 
adoption gains momentum. 
ASIA PACIFIC
Australia’s NEV market grew by 40% in 2024, but Inchcape 
outpaced this growth, achieving a 57.3% year-on-year 
increase. By year-end, we had captured 1.2% of the national 
NEV segment. Inchcape’s BEV sales alone grew fivefold 
compared to 2023, now accounting for over 1.6% of our 
overall mix, while Hybrid vehicles (including mild, full and 
plug-in hybrid) collectively rose by over 35% to represent 
over 7.1% of our total sales. Collectively, NEVs accounted 
for 8.8% of Inchcape’s total sales in Australia in 2024.
In 2024, Inchcape was appointed the distributor for DEEPAL in 
Australia, an all-electric brand from Chinese OEM CHANGAN 
Automobile. Mr. Shen Xinghua, President of CHANGAN 
Automobile’s APAC region, expressed enthusiasm about the 
partnership, stating: “We are delighted to have Inchcape as 
our partner in the Australian market. 
"After studying the Australian market for several years, we 
view it as a strategic location. With Inchcape’s expertise 
and the successful DEEPAL brand, we are confident in 
delivering new energy mobility and better services to 
Australian customers.”
40%
Australia’s NEV market grew by 40% in 2024
57.3%
Inchcape's 2024 Australian market share 
growth outpacing national trends
In Guam and Saipan, we supported BMW’s launch of the new 
i5 eDrive40, adding to its growing electric lineup alongside 
the iX, i4, and i7. To help accelerate EV adoption, Inchcape 
partnered with Triple J Technologies to install charging 
infrastructure at high-footfall destinations including shopping 
malls, hotels, golf courses and restaurants. This initiative will 
nearly double the number of EV charging stations in Guam – 
improving access for residents, particularly those in high-rise 
buildings with limited home-charging options. 
In Hong Kong, we launched three new NEV models in 2024 
contributing to a notable rise in NEV market share from 4.8% 
in 2023 to 7.6% in 2024. To support this regional momentum, 
we have significantly expanded our servicing capacity. 
Since 2023, our NEV servicing network has grown to over 700 
workshops, complemented by strengthened partnerships with 
charging infrastructure providers. These investments are 
enhancing the ownership experience and reinforcing our 
leadership in enabling the NEV transition across Asia Pacific.
Ethiopia´s electric mobility policy, with specific 
targets for vehicle imports by 2030, is ambitious 
and aims to support to faster transition. This 
positions us strategically in Africa’s fastestgrowing BEV market, supported by strong 
regulatory incentives.
Later in 2024, we introduced XPENG to Finland, 
expanding our BEV offering in a market 
where adoption is rapidly increasing. We also 
announced the introduction of XPENG to Poland.
As part of our initiatives to enable and effectively 
roll out new technologies across our markets, 
Inchcape’s global guidance on implementing 
site-level health and safety has played a 
crucial role in enhancing safety throughout our 
operations. For example, at our Poznań site in 
Poland, we’ve made key improvements to the 
bodyshop and workshop, including upgrading 
personal protective equipment, installing floor 
protections, and introducing EV fire blankets. 
These changes have significantly strengthened 
our health and safety performance and culture.
These developments are providing consumers 
across Europe and Africa with access to a wider 
variety of NEVs, offering greater choice and 
enhanced value.
EUROPE AND AFRICA

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Through the strategic partnership with Schneider 
Electric, there were more than 200 Schneider 
chargers installed across 100 locations in Hong 
Kong. The partnership is accelerating the transition 
to sustainable mobility in Hong Kong, making 
EVs more accessible and supporting the city's 
environmental goals.
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
24
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
E N A B L I N G N E W T E C H N O L O G I E S
ROLLING OUT NEW 
TECHNOLOGIES, 
MARKET-BY-MARKET
We drive the adoption of innovative 
mobility technologies, going beyond 
vehicle sales to provide end-to-end 
support in rollout, aftersales and 
ecosystem readiness for NEVs.
DRIVING A 
GREENER FUTURE: 
INCHCAPE’S ROLE 
IN HONG KONG’S 
EV TRANSITION 
C A S E S T U D Y
With the rapid adoption of EVs in Hong 
Kong, Inchcape Greater China has 
partnered with Schneider Electric to 
address key barriers and accelerate 
the city’s transition to NEVs.
Insufficient charging infrastructure 
has slowed Hong Kong’s NEV transition. 
We aim to deliver impactful, budgetfriendly solutions while strengthening 
the city’s EV ecosystem.
Joe Lam: Deputy General Manager, 
Greater China
The challenge
Hong Kong’s NEV market now accounts for 90% of 
private car registrations, but charging infrastructure 
remains a barrier to NEV customers and widening NEV 
adoption beyond private vehicles. To address this, 
Inchcape partnered with Schneider Electric in 2022 
to expand the city’s EV charging network.
The partnership launched Inchcape’s first public EV 
charging station, integrating installation and payment 
platforms. 
Inchcape’s impact
The programme supports comprehensive 360-degree 
charging solution for private owners, corporate clients 
and developers, supporting all EV models. It offers a 
competitive total package, pairing EV brands with 
Schneider Electric’s Green Premium™ chargers to 
optimise energy use and cut CO₂ emissions.
Outcome
As Hong Kong’s largest automotive distributor, 
Inchcape plays a key role in driving the city’s 
transport transformation. The team shares 
a common vision: building a cleaner, more 
sustainable future for generations to come.
To ensure seamless integration, we support 
market-wide NEV adoption by providing 
lifecycle management, aftersales services and 
customer education.
We also train and upskill our teams to offer the 
full range of NEVs, helping customers embrace 
sustainable mobility, prioritise responsible practices 
and maintain a customer-centric approach.
Looking forward

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
25
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
inchcape.com
Singapore’s Green Plan 2030 aims to support the 
transition to cleaner energy models, driving demand 
for a skilled NEV workforce. However, the industry 
faces a talent gap, with shortages in technicians, 
sales professionals and NEV specialists.
Inchcape’s NEV education strengthens its leadership 
in sustainable mobility equipping our colleagues with 
the skills to meet evolving demands of the mobility 
transition, and enabling the delivery of high-quality 
support throughout the NEV lifecycle:
• Sales consultants can confidently guide customers 
on NEV benefits.
• Technicians are equipped to safely service and 
repair NEVs, enhancing aftersales.
• The NESS Certificate helps upskill industry 
professionals, supporting Singapore’s clean 
mobility transition.
Inchcape Singapore partnered with Singapore 
Polytechnic to roll out NEV training programmes. The EV 
101 and EV Fundamentals courses have trained more 
than 230 colleagues, equipping them with essential 
skills to service the new mobility technologies.
Inchcape also supports the National Electric Vehicle 
Specialist Safety ("NESS") Certification, developed 
by LTA and Skills Future Singapore SSG, and offered 
through Singapore Polytechnic ("SP"). Inchcape trainers 
contribute expertise to upskill external technicians and 
professionals in NEV safety and maintenance.
The challenge
Inchcape’s impact
Looking forward
This partnership reinforces Singapore’s clean energy 
goals and accelerates EV adoption. Through training, 
innovation and collaboration, Inchcape is shaping a 
future-ready workforce and driving the EV transition 
for colleagues, customers and communities.
Outcome
NURTURING 
THE FUTURE 
OF EV TALENT 
IN SINGAPORE
C A S E S T U D Y
E N A B L I N G N E W T E C H N O L O G I E S
230+
colleagues trained on the 
EV 101 and EV Fundamentals courses
Being a NESS trainer allows me 
to share knowledge and support 
Singapore’s NEV journey.
Trun Wee Siow: Assistant Manager, 
Training Department, Singapore

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
26
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
E V R I S K M A N A G E M E N T
Equipping markets for safe operations
The rapid growth of NEV adoption in 2024 introduced a 
new profile of potential risks, requiring a proactive and 
comprehensive approach to safety and operational 
readiness. As the number of NEVs on the road continues 
to rise, our markets face evolving challenges across the 
value chain. In response, we have strengthened our 
NEV risk management programme to enhance training, 
safety measures and overall preparedness.
Recognising the complexities of handling high-voltage 
vehicles, we have expanded our efforts to improve 
employee safety, operational resilience and site readiness. 
This programme focuses on minimising risks associated 
with NEV electrical exposure, thermal runaway events and 
facility compliance, ensuring that our teams and facilities 
are equipped to manage the demands of an increasingly 
electrified fleet. 
Key elements of the programme:
• Employee personal safety: Implementing specialised 
tooling, protective equipment and safety protocols for 
handling NEV electrical exposure.
• Thermal runaway risk mitigation: Introducing passive and 
active monitoring systems to enable early detection and 
intervention in the event of thermal runaway incidents.
• Site readiness: Conducting audits and risk assessments to 
ensure all operational sites are compliant and prepared 
for NEV servicing and repair.
• Technical training: Establishing a standardised NEV 
technical training programme across all markets, with 
plans for further expansion in 2025. We’re staggering 
the programme to include different training thresholds, 
including a base level of training for all employees 
working with or near NEVs, a more advanced level for 
those performing direct maintenance, a high voltage 
certification for NEV technicians, and OEM-specific 
training for those working on a specific model range. 
Global consistency 
This initiative places life safety and operational continuity 
at its core, ensuring that our people and facilities remain 
protected while maintaining high levels of service, even in 
diverse global markets. 
To provide an example from our Americas region, many 
markets have no NEV-specific regulation, with those that 
do – including Chile, Colombia, Ecuador and Uruguay – 
having different regulatory regimes. Operating in these 
markets therefore depends on Inchcape applying a 
level of consistency to NEV management and upskilling 
colleagues where necessary. 
As new technologies continue to roll out, Inchcape is 
ensuring we enable an orderly, risk-free deployment into 
new markets, safeguarding out operations and colleagues. 
Inchcape’s global guidance on 
implementing effective site-level 
health and safety helped our 
site in Poznań maximise safety 
performance and culture.
SAFELY DELIVERING 
THE MOBILITY 
TRANSITION
Magdalena Zacher: Aftersales Manager, 
Poland

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
27
inchcape.com
28
Cross-pillar impact through our DDCs
29
Planet
40
People
48
Places
53
Practices
SUSTAINABLE ROUTE TO MARKET
INTRODUCING 
OUR FOUR PILLARS
05
We are dedicated to creating sustainable value 
for all our stakeholders, enhancing the impact 
we have on our planet, the communities we 
serve, and the places where we operate.
Ximena Rodriguez: Responsible Business Project Manager, Americas
Sustainability Pillars
READ MORE P. 46
PEOPLE
82% inclusion score 
READ MORE P. 29
PLANET
7.5% emissions reduction Scope 1 and 2
READ MORE P. 47
READ MORE P. 56
PRACTICES
Open Doors Policy launched in the Americas, 
boosting direct dialogue and trust across teams
PLACES
10,000+ community members impacted

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
28
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
D R I V I N G C R O S S - P I L L A R I M PA C T T H R O U G H O U R D I G I T A L D E L I V E R Y C E N T R E S ( “ D D C S ” )
IMPACT 
THROUGH 
OUR DDCS 
C A S E S T U D Y
43%
of DDC’s workforce is female
Digital transformation can be a catalyst for 
sustainability. As the automotive industry evolves, 
Inchcape is embracing digital tools to streamline 
operations, improve efficiencies and reduce 
environmental impact. At the same time, we 
recognise that gender diversity and access to tech 
careers remain global challenges. That’s why we’re 
committed to improving access to digital skills and 
building diverse digital teams - to future-proof our 
operations and promote inclusivity.
The DDC in the Philippines and Colombia drives digital 
innovation with scalable solutions that enhance 
operations and sustainability. Cloud migration, a key 
initiative, consolidates data centres, cutting electricity 
use and supporting environmental commitments.
Beyond technology, the DDC champions diversity 
– 43% of its workforce is female, surpassing industry 
averages. Policies promoting gender equity and career 
development programmes create opportunities for 
individuals from various backgrounds.
The DDC’s efforts drive both innovation and inclusivity.
• Since 2022, 96 women have participated in 
Inchpact, a programme that trains women 
interested in technology and equipping them with 
the skills to find market opportunities. 51% of the 
participants have been hired into our DDC teams.
• 50+ programme supports professionals over 50, 
ensuring age diversity.
• Student programme in the Philippines develops 
young tech talent.
• InnovateHer (Dec 2024, Colombia) introduced 
women to IT and digital careers through a 
hackathon, with winners fast-tracked for the DDC 
talent development pipeline. 
The challenge
Inchcape’s solution
Impact
Through the DDCs, we’re shaping a sustainable 
and inclusive digital future. By bringing together 
diverse perspectives and helping our colleagues 
realise their maximum potential, we ensure 
technology remains a driver of innovation and 
equity, as we transform tomorrow, together.
Looking forward
96
women have participated 
in Inchpact since 2022

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
29
inchcape.com
S U S T A I N A B L E R O U T E T O M A R K E T
30
Lowest carbon route to market
33
Reducing our direct emissions (Scope 1 and 2)
36
Value chain emissions (Scope 3)
38
Circularity and waste
39
Transforming supply chain efficiency
70+
sites with on-site generation, 
avoiding 999tCO2e
7
.5%
year-on-year reduction in 
Scope 1 and 2 emissions
46%
emissions reduction target by 2030
4
key programmes rolled out globally – 
energy efficiency, electrification, 
green tariffs and onsite generation
PLANET
We’re working hard towards our net 
zero 2040 goal, as part of providing 
the lowest carbon route to market 
for our OEM partners.
Meron Lema: Brand and Insight Manager, Ethiopia
THE LOWEST CARBON 
ROUTE TO MARKET

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
30
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
As the industry transitions towards a low carbon 
future, our role is to provide our partners with the 
lowest carbon route to market. By addressing our 
own emissions impact, we can support them in 
achieving their own decarbonisation goals. 
As well as advancing decarbonisation initiatives 
to reduce direct (Scope 1 and 2) emissions, this 
year we undertook a dedicated analysis to better 
quantify and understand our indirect (Scope 3) 
emissions, which you can read about on page 36.
S U S T A I N A B L E R O U T E T O M A R K E T : P L A N E T
7.5%
Year-on-year reduction of 
Scope 1 and 2 emissions
LOWEST CARBON 
ROUTE TO MARKET 
46%
NET ZERO
Reduction in absolute 
Scope 1 and 2 emissions1
Scope 1 and 2 emissions
CDP Score: B
We have disclosed our response to climate change to 
CDP since 2019. In 2023 we were awarded a B rating 
for the first time, and are proud to have maintained this 
strong rating in 2024, a reflection of our progress and 
continued management of our environmental impact. 
TCFD and climate risk disclosures
We disclose on our climate change risks and opportunities 
following the recommendations of the Task Force on 
Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (“TCFD"). You can 
read our TCFD Statement in full in our Annual Report (p.35). 
In 2025, we will be refreshing our climate scenario analysis 
and reevaluating our strategic response to climate-related 
risks and opportunities. This update is important in light of 
Accelerate+, alignment to CSRD, shifting climate realities 
and acquisitions since our last scenario analysis which 
have changed our global profile. 
37,243
2024
59,574 
2019 
(baseline)2
40,261
2023
TARGET
32,170
Our progress against targets 
(market based) (tCO₂e):
1. 
From a 2019 baseline year.
2. 
The 2019 baseline has been adjusted in line with the GHG Protocol 
Corporate Standard to adjust for structural changes in the business.
* 
IEA, Electric Vehicles, 2025
We recognise that the automotive 
industry is a significant contributor 
to GHG emissions, with road 
transport contributing 15% of 
global emissions (IEA)*.
As at the end of 2024, we have successfully 
reduced our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 37.5% 
from the 2019 baseline. This represents a year-onyear reduction of 7.5%.
37.5%
Reduction in our Scope 1 and 2 
emissions from the 2019 baseline
2030
OUR TARGETS
2040
GRI 305 – Emissions

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
31
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
S U S T A I N A B L E R O U T E T O M A R K E T : P L A N E T
INCHCAPE ON THE 
ROAD TO NET ZERO 
 
HIGHLIGHTS FROM 2024
To meet our direct emissions target of net zero 
(Scope 1 and 2) by 2040, we’ve implemented 
Group-wide decarbonisation initiatives addressing 
our key sources of emissions. For our full Scope 1 
and 2 emissions, please see page 62 of this report.
  AMERICAS
In Chile – Energy management 
systems across the country were 
upgraded covering more than 
70% of our facilities consumption, 
with sub-metering at 22 sites, 
and 33 sites now with automatic 
control systems – boosting the 
sophistication and measurement 
underlying our reductions efforts. 
In Peru – A new refrigerant 
recycling system is set to save 
around 100 tonnes of carbon 
annually. With refrigerants 
management a minimum 
requirement for sites, Peru is leading 
the way in minimising leakage and 
enhancing stewardship. 
In Bolivia – we launched ‘Ruta 
Sostenible’, a contest where teams 
raced one another to meet energy 
efficiency targets. With each 
team represented by a car on a 
racetrack, the friendly competition 
– backed by awards and monthly 
recognition – helped teams 
boost energy efficiency by more 
than 50% at sites, and 58% at the 
Santa Cruz headquarters. 
  APAC
In Hong Kong and Macau – LED 
upgrades at five sites, alongside 
behavioural and operational 
changes, have contributed to 
saving over 160 tonnes of carbon 
a year. 
In Guam - We installed a large solar 
system on our main retail location, 
resulting in location-based carbon 
savings of 7.7%. 
In Australia – Solar power has 
been installed at a total of 18 
sites, delivering significant carbon 
savings, alongside an ongoing 
reshaping of our retail footprint as 
we replace large sites with more 
new, more efficient locations better 
aligned with customer needs. Total 
efforts in Australia led to a reduction 
in Scope 1 and 2 location-based 
emissions by 1,584 tonnes of 
carbon, representing a year-onyear reduction of 22%. 
9%
reduction in our emissions 
in our Americas region 
(location based)
9.1%
reduction in our emissions 
in our Asia Pacific region 
(location based)

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
32
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
S U S T A I N A B L E R O U T E T O M A R K E T : P L A N E T
HIGHLIGHTS FROM 2024
Our remuneration structure includes emissions reductions as part 
of short-term incentives, to help ensure these goals are prioritised. 
Leadership is incentivised to reach our 2030 direct emissions target, 
achieve absolute year-on-year reductions in carbon emissions, and 
in the last year leadership were also incentivised to implement a 
data collection process suitable for the EU’s CSRD regulation. 
TO READ MORE ABOUT OUR 
BUSINESS IN OUR ANNUAL REPORT.
CLICK OR SCAN THE QR CODE
  EUROPE & AFRICA
Renewable tariff switches were 
made across the region, with 
notable reductions in Poland (724 
tonnes of carbon saved) and Latvia 
(231 tonnes of carbon saved).
Europe’s location-based emissions 
increased by 1%, the only region in 
the year to increase in emissions. 
This is partially due to the use of 
new emissions factors in calculating 
Scope 2 emissions. It is in the context 
of revenues increasing and new sites 
in Finland, Estonia, and Africa. 
17%
emissions reduction 
across European markets 
(market based)
SPOTLIGHT BULGARIA: 
EXPANDING ONSITE 
RENEWABLE ENERGY
In Sofia, Bulgaria, we continued building on our solar 
energy initiatives in 2024, following the success of our 
first installation in 2023. In May 2024, a second solar 
park was established at our East premises, featuring 
238 solar panels. These panels supply renewable 
energy directly to the grid and now provide 
approximately 35–50% of the site’s electricity needs, 
based on data from the first two months of operation.
The solar park’s annual production is estimated at 104 
MWh, with around 25 MWh exported to the national 
grid as green energy for use by other businesses 
and households.
Bulgaria has been a pioneer in this space within our 
region, and their progress is being considered as a case 
study for Europe & Africa. Looking ahead to 2025, the 
team is exploring additional carbon reduction measures, 
including switching from gas boilers to heat pumps and 
undertaking energy audits to improve efficiency.
S P O T L I G H T

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
33
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
OUR PATHWAY TO 2030
S U S T A I N A B L E R O U T E T O M A R K E T : P L A N E T
Minimum requirements:
1 

Energy usage must be monitored 
with metering/sub-metering.
2 

Energy audits must cover at least 
80% of market consumption.
3 

Refrigerant gas management 
is mandatory at all sites.
Our Group-wide Energy Management Programme 
tracks energy consumption to identify waste and 
reduction opportunities. Annual action plans 
and regular audits guide our markets in lowering 
consumption. Site managers receive an Energy 
Management Guide with efficiency strategies.
We are establishing working groups and change 
champions to promote energy-saving behaviours at 
sites. Outside of major capex investments such as solar 
and lighting systems, it’s also the job of these groups to 
find ways to reduce energy usage at each location. 
Examples include efficient usage of HVAC systems, 
upgrading of LED lighting with automations, fitting 
timers to devices to ensure they’re used at the right 
parts of the day, and reducing energy usage in areas 
of buildings with low traffic. Through these working 
groups, we’re collaborating to drive engagement 
and accountability at a site level to foster an energy 
efficient mindset.
Sources of Inchcape’s Scope 1 and 2 emissions (market based)
In 2023, we conducted our first ‘hot spot’ analysis to identify our key sources of direct 
emissions, with the main areas of impact given below. Key delivery programmes for 
GHG reductions in our direct emissions were developed around this analysis.
Management of emissions
In 2024 we established minimum requirements for our 
operations globally, which we’re implementing as 
standard practices across our sites. These are divided 
around four key areas of focus:
Energy efficiency
Identifying opportunities to reduce energy consumption 
through efficient running of our buildings and investing in 
energy efficiency initiatives.
Electrification
To plan for our locations to be all electric with the 
 removal of fossil fuels in normal operation, and to 
move our company car fleet to NEVs.
Green tariffs
To maintain and extend our green tariff procurement 
programme, and identify other opportunities for 
renewable electricity procurements, such as power 
purchase agreements.
Onsite generation
To identify more opportunities to install solar panels as well 
as identify other onsite renewable technologies, such as 
ground source systems, wherever possible.
To support this, in 2024, each region developed a threeyear plan for emissions reductions to create mid-term 
targets for reductions. These plans help us ensure that all 
markets are pursuing our emissions reductions targets and 
align with our four key areas. The short time period means 
that we can manage and drive emissions reductions and 
analysis of progress in the short term. This in turn helps 
us to identify the most impactful methods for emissions 
reductions against the amount of investment required, 
which will better guide our emissions reductions plans. 
Energy efficiency
Scope 1 and 2 (market based)
47%
Building: Purchased 
electricity (Scope 2)
17%
Building: Natural Gas 
& Other Fuels (Scope 1)
32%
Company cars: 
(Scope 1)
4%
Building: Refrigerant 
use (Scope 1)
GRI 305 – Emissions

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
34
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
SPOTLIGHT 
ON SAIPAN
Our new dealership in Saipan was built in 2024 to meet 
the growth of the business. From the start, we took a 
whole-building approach to energy efficiency and 
sustainability – this included high-quality insulation, 
smart HVAC and lighting controls, and appliances 
selected for outstanding energy performance.
Additionally, the building uses rainwater catchment 
and filtration and a low impact stormwater retention 
approach designed to mimic how rainfall would enter 
the ground on the original land.
We also worked to minimise impacts on neighbours 
by monitoring sound levels and light and installed a 
sound attenuator on our generator. We’re proud of 
the new facility, which reflects our approach to being 
responsive to our surroundings and local community, 
while prioritising the lowest carbon route to market in 
new builds.
S P O T L I G H T
S U S T A I N A B L E R O U T E T O M A R K E T : P L A N E T
ENERGY AND 
RENEWABLES 
In 2024, our solar installations 
generated enough clean electricity 
to avoid a total of 999 tonnes of 
carbon emissions.
Scope 1 and 2 (market based)
Minimum requirements:
4 

New builds must be all-electric 
where possible.
5 

Sites using gas must develop 
transition plans.
6 

Markets must plan a shift to 
low-emission company vehicles.
To be net zero ready, new Inchcape locations are 
designed as all-electric, integrating sustainability and 
efficiency considerations. Where feasible, we transition 
from gas heating to air source heat pumps.
With 64% of our direct emissions from properties, 
improving energy efficiency is key. We are phasing 
out natural gas, diesel and LPG heating in paint 
booths, replacing them with infrared technology, 
which eliminates fossil fuel emissions while 
boosting productivity.
Minimum requirements:
7 

All sites evaluated for onsite 
solar panel potential
8 

New builds to consider 
ground source systems
Our renewable energy procurement strategy prioritises 
maximising the amount of new renewable energy 
contributed to energy systems. We aim for onsite 
generation wherever possible, and in 2024 added 
to our solar installations across our markets. As well 
as producing CO2-free electricity, installations can 
reduce energy costs and moderate the risk of future 
energy price volatility. 
Minimum requirements:
9 

Green tariffs are the default 
option for markets
10 

PPAs are investigated where 
green tariffs are unavailable 
We purchase renewable electricity at sites across our 
markets, with sites switching to renewable energy 
tariffs throughout the year. This includes our New 
Zealand business, which in 2024 switched to 100% 
renewable energy. 
In 2024, we achieved 24% of all our sites being on 
green tariffs. This is down from 32% of sites in 2023, 
contributed to by the divestment of the UK business 
where 100% of sites were on green tariffs.
Electrification
Onsite generation
Green tariffs
Sam Pilcher: Group Environmental Manager, UK
In Singapore 
• Switching diesel-powered paint booths to infrared 
saves 24 tonnes of CO2 annually.
In Hong Kong & Costa Rica 
• Switching company cars from ICE to EVs saves 11 
tonnes of CO2 annually.
GRI 305 – Emissions

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
35
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
S U S T A I N A B L E R O U T E T O M A R K E T : P L A N E T
70 sites
In total, over 70 Inchcape sites 
worldwide now have solar installations
In 2025, new installations are predicted 
to save nearly 900 tonnes of CO2e 
emissions annually:
A NEW 
PLATFORM 
FOR CARBON 
REPORTING
In 2024, we began the phased rollout of our new sustainability 
reporting platform from Watershed to support the carbon 
reporting process. This will allow for centralised reporting of 
recorded emissions, improving visibility on our impacts and 
supporting decision-making around decarbonisation. 
Beginning in our Asia Pacific region, rolling out the platform 
will help us further clarify roles and responsibilities for 
carbon, and aid with documenting of data sources, 
creation of accountability, and evidencing of reduction 
strategies – a significant upgrade to our processes. 
We’re looking forward to reporting more on our progress 
with the tool in 2025, with the goal of creating a single 
centralised source for emissions reporting globally. 
The platform will help us take further ownership and 
control over our sustainability targets, with more timely 
carbon emissions reporting. It will also help our markets 
understand and celebrate progress in real time – and 
better understand where in their business opportunity 
exists for continuous improvement. With full rollout across 
all regions planned in 2025, the Watershed tool will be a 
central part of our decision making and reporting efforts.
Americas
Europe & Africa
Asia Pacific
New installations at sites in Ecuador, 
El Salvador, and Guatemala – totalling 
80% of these sites’ electricity
Expansions to installations in Peru and Bolivia
New installations at four sites in Greece 
and Romania, completed last August
In Guam, new installations went live 
at the beginning of last year 
In Australia, installations at five further sites built on 
our impressive portfolio, totalling nearly 20 sites
Hugo Stewart: Sustainability Reporting Lead, UK
GRI 305 – Emissions

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
36
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
The majority of these emissions exist in our category 1 and 
category 11 emissions – which refer respectively to the 
emissions associated with the manufacturing of the vehicles 
Inchcape distributes, and the lifetime emissions produced by 
the use of those vehicles. 
Total emissions 
(tCO2e)
Percentage of 
total Scope 3 
emissions
Category 1 – Purchased 
goods and services
3.6m
24%
Category 11 – Use of 
sold products 
9.8m
67%
Inchcape’s Scope 3 footprint is therefore closely tied to 
the current focus and strategies of our OEM partners and 
the vehicles that they are prioritising selling, and to their 
own decarbonisation ambitions. It is also tied to the speed 
at which markets transition to low-carbon electricity grids, 
and the rate at which EV uptake occurs in those markets. 
*  Scope 3 categories calculated included categories 1 to 7, and 11 to 13. For more details on categories and exclusions, please see page 62.
Total scope 3 emissions (tCO2e) 2024
Reviewing Scope 3 target setting
In 2024, the Sustainability Committee and Board reviewed 
whether it would be appropriate to set reduction targets 
for Scope 3, taking into account the level of control the 
Company has in relation to its major Scope 3 categories, the 
assessment of emissions trajectories in its markets in different 
future scenarios and forecasts for future business growth.
The feasibility of setting a target with the Science Based 
Targets initiative (“SBTi”), the leading standard for 
target setting, was investigated with the support of an 
expert external consultant. Different target options were 
considered, including both absolute and intensity-based 
targets for individual Scope 3 categories:
Type
Target Scope
Absolute 
emissions 
All vehicles – category 11
Passenger vehicles – categories 1 
and 11
Emissions intensity 
Category 11 (revenue based)
Category 1 and 11 (per vehicle)
Supplier 
engagement 
All vehicles – category 1 and 11
Modelling was undertaken for both ‘most likely’ and 
‘accelerated transition’ scenarios. As we support our 
partners in increasing sales of their vehicles, these increased 
sales contribute significantly to our Scope 3 footprint for all 
absolute emissions targets. While NEV sales are predicted to 
increase by proportion, reducing our category 11 emissions, 
the emissions associated with manufacturing of these NEVs – 
which contributes to category 1 – remain high. 
VALUE CHAIN EMISSIONS
UNDERSTANDING 
OUR IMPACT
 
The majority of our emissions 
footprint, like for many other 
organisations, is composed of our 
value chain emissions, also known 
as ‘Scope 3’. These emissions 
represent 99% of Inchcape’s 
total emissions.*
For intensity targets, the transition to selling NEVs doesn’t 
occur quickly enough for us to be able to set a SBTi aligned 
target, partially down to Inchcape serving many markets 
which are at an earlier stage of the mobility transition. 
As a result, a combination of volume growth, slower 
transitions in certain markets, our close connection to the 
NEV ambitions of OEM partners (which vary from partner 
to partner), and other factors including SBTi requirements 
to set targets covering multiple categories, meant that no 
reductions target which would be approved by the SBTi 
was judged to be feasible. The Sustainability Committee 
and the Board have agreed to review this position on a 
regular basis, as market realities and the availability of 
information changes. 
S U S T A I N A B L E R O U T E T O M A R K E T : P L A N E T
14.5
GRI 305 – Emissions

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
37
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
Inchcape’s transition
While according to SBTi criteria we can’t 
meet the rate of carbon reductions 
necessary to set a target, it’s possible for us 
to both grow and expand our OEM services, 
whilst also decarbonising. We can act on 
reducing our Scope 3 emissions even if it isn’t 
currently possible to set a target. 
How we’re acting on Scope 3:
01
Equipping policymakers 
with insights
Supporting Chile’s mobility 
transition through advice to 
policymakers – page 20
02
Engaging 
with OEMs
Delivering initiatives with 
Suzuki globally – page 14
03
Preparing markets 
for the transition
Strengthening EV 
risk management 
comprehension – page 26
Inchcape’s role
Our OEM partners are at different stages of their 
sustainability journeys. We remain committed 
to supporting each of the markets in which 
we operate as they go through their mobility 
transition, including those that are moving at 
pace and those that are currently adopting a 
slower mixed powertrain approach. 
Rather than reducing our exposure to markets 
which are decarbonising more slowly to reduce 
our emissions footprint, our focus is on enabling 
our partners to deliver their transition strategies, 
across all markets, sustainably and effectively. 
This role opens up avenues through 
which we can drive the transition, 
which are detailed throughout 
this report:
We’re adding more low-emissions 
vehicles to our portfolio than ever before 
We’re building our portfolio to support the mobility transition, and 
made significant progress during 2024. Throughout this report, we’ve 
detailed how we’re transforming as a business to be the partner 
of choice to supporting OEMs through the mobility transition. These 
changes in turn reduce our value chain emissions footprint. 
• We now have four brands with fully BEV or NEV lineups rolled 
out across our markets – the most we’ve ever had.
• Of the 22 contract wins with new-to-Inchcape OEM partners 
in 2024, 14 have portfolios of majority-NEV offerings.
• We sold BEVs in 28 Inchcape markets in 2024.
• 89% of our OEM partners have net zero targets, with 
over half of them engaged with the SBTi. 
The emissions intensity of our 
passenger cars is reducing
• Total emissions intensity of the BEVs sold by Inchcape 
is forecast to reduce by 17% by 2035, based on 
our modelling. We calculated that the current 
emissions intensity of our passenger vehicles 
associated with categories 1 and 11 is 35.26 
tCO2e, a statistic we will monitor in coming years. 
• BEVs sold as a percentage of vehicles we sell 
rose to 2.3% in 2024, up from 1% in 2023. 
External factors: The grids in our markets 
are decarbonising
• An increase in low-carbon electricity in Inchcape’s 
markets is predicted to reduce emissions contributed 
by electricity grids, including those that power NEVs 
which we sell, by 54%.
54%
reduction in emissions through 
low-carbon electricity.
S U S T A I N A B L E R O U T E T O M A R K E T : P L A N E T
GRI 305 – Emissions

--- PAGE BREAK ---

GRI 306 – Waste
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
38
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
CIRCULARITY 
AND WASTE 
Our contribution to circularity 
Extending vehicle lifecycles reduces waste and enhances 
sustainability. Through servicing, parts supply and used 
vehicle sales, we ensure vehicles remain valuable beyond 
their first ownership. Supporting optimal performance while 
minimising environmental impact, we promote a circular, 
resource-efficient automotive ecosystem.
Upskilling colleagues
Inchcape fosters a unified approach to waste 
management by equipping colleagues with practical 
skills through workshops and best-practice sharing. By 
coordinating efforts across markets, we build a sustainability 
culture focused on resource efficiency, aligning global 
strategies with local needs.
Handling waste
Our goal is to manage waste responsibly and reduce 
volumes. Given diverse market conditions, many 
rely on external suppliers or governments for waste 
handling. Our main waste sources — vehicle servicing 
(oil, tyres, parts) and properties — are governed by 
our Property Sustainability Charter. We aim to improve 
waste quantification, enabling better tracking and 
reduction strategies.
In Australia, during 2024 we completed a process to 
consolidate all our waste suppliers across our portfolio 
to a single waste contractor. This supplier consolidation 
enhances control over circularity and allows us to more 
accurately understand our waste profile. From this we can 
set targets to reduce landfill and increase reuse of waste 
in our operations.
S U S T A I N A B L E R O U T E T O M A R K E T : P L A N E T
Circularity 
through vehicle 
services
First sale
Service and 
maintenance
Reuse in 
manufacturing
Trade-in and 
next sales
End-of-life 
management

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
39
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
Storage sites and parts logistics are a crucial of 
Inchcape’s work to enable the mobility transition. 
Our logistics operations have direct environmental 
impacts, as parts require transportation and are stored 
in warehouses, where a larger need for space means 
a larger emission profile. 
There is an additional logistical and storage challenge for 
enabling the mobility transition, as traditional ICE vehicles 
require different parts, putting a heaver burden on the 
need to maintain a wide variety of parts to service all 
vehicle as the transition takes place. 
Optimising our stock management and storage is 
crucial to reduce our carbon footprint and maintain 
seamless operations for the mobility transition. 
In 2024, we launched targeted initiatives to cut 
emissions and improve efficiency. Warehouse 
consolidation was key – reducing sites and 
optimising storage space.
• Bolivia: Streamlined parts storage from 
five to four warehouses, reducing 14,500m² 
of space and stock by 150 vehicles.
• Chile: Through consolidating four parts warehouses 
into one, and two vehicle hub locations into 
one, we saved a total of 26,400m², reducing 
fuel-related emissions by 157 tCO₂ annually.
• Colombia: Set to merge two warehouses 
by Q2 2025, reducing storage by 
60,000m² and improving logistics.
• Peru: Consolidating 2,500m², saving 15.5 tCO2 in 
transport and 68.65 tons from energy use.
Additional measures, such as motion sensors 
and optimised lighting, further reduced 
environmental impact.
AI-driven forecasting and digital analytics improved 
inventory alignment, reducing global stock by 
11% in 2024. Over 50% of spare parts and all new 
vehicle stock are now managed under this system, 
boosting efficiency.
The challenge
Inchcape solution
Impact
We will expand our Hub & Spoke model across Costa 
Rica, Panama and the Caribbean, which will be 
implemented in 2026. We anticipate that this can 
achieve up to:
These efforts strengthen our low-emission supply 
chain, reinforcing sustainability while delivering worldclass logistics for our OEM partners.
Looking forward
TRANSFORMING 
SUPPLY CHAIN 
EFFICIENCY
C A S E S T U D Y
S U S T A I N A B L E R O U T E T O M A R K E T : P L A N E T
These efforts strengthen our lowemission supply chain, reinforcing 
sustainability while delivering worldclass logistics for our OEM partners.
50-80%
reduction in airfreight costs.
16%
decrease in stock holding.
6%
lower sea freight expenses.
Charlie Cracknell: Group Head of Supply Chain, UK

--- PAGE BREAK ---

S U S T A I N A B L E R O U T E T O M A R K E T
41
Realise your potential: talent and development
44
Health and safety
45
One Inchcape Culture: acquisitions & integration
46
A workplace where everyone can thrive: 
inclusion & diversity
47
Be Heard survey 2024
778
colleagues in our early careers 
programme, with 97% saying it made 
a meaningful impact on their career
82%
inclusion score in the 2024 Be Heard 
colleague engagement survey, placing us in 
the upper quartile - a standout achievement 
and a marker of a globally inclusive culture
28%
of leadership is female
87
%
employee ownership and 
responsibility (H&S survey)
In 2024, colleagues across markets 
have driven inclusive hiring, enabled 
safer operations and championed 
our Inchcape One culture.
Estefania Gomez Lopez: Project Manager DDC, Colombia
PEOPLE
PEOPLE-FOCUSED 
ROUTE TO MARKET
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
40
inchcape.com

--- PAGE BREAK ---

S U S T A I N A B L E R O U T E T O M A R K E T : P E O P L E
Realise your potential: talent and development 
TRANSFORMING 
TOMORROW, TOGETHER
Our One Inchcape culture
Our One Inchcape culture is central to our success as a 
global business – it helps drive collaboration, innovation 
and a shared commitment to excellence. We foster a 
culture built on teamwork, fresh thinking and a focus on 
delivery, ensuring that our colleagues, OEM partners and 
customers receive the highest level of support, service 
and experience for every colleague who chooses to 
build their career with Inchcape.
Achieving our Accelerate+ strategy means continually 
challenging ourselves to work more effectively and think 
globally as we look to optimise our business. By striving 
for industry-leading service, exceptional customer 
experiences and a dynamic workplace, we strengthen 
our partnerships, enhance customer satisfaction, and 
make Inchcape an even better place to work.
90%
retention of emerging 
and high-potential talent
 
2024 performance: 96%
30%
as a proportion of women 
in Senior positions by 2025 
 
2024 performance: 28%
30%
female representation across 
total global workforce 
 
2024 performance: 30% (achieved)
70:30
internal vs. external hires for senior positions
 
2024 performance: 69% internal hiring 
of senior roles across all regions 
90%
retention or progression in the 24 months 
following leadership programme completion
 
2024 performance: 100% retention of 
Accelerate training participants, 
average programme retention rate 80%
82% 
inclusion score in our Be Heard 
Survey – a standout strength 
aligning us with the best-in-class 
organisations globally
PROGRESS ACROSS OUR TARGETS
Goal
Goal
Goal
Goal
Goal
Our values
Delivering the global mobility transition, locally, is 
enabled by our One Inchcape Values and Behaviours – 
a framework that provides the foundations we need to 
meet our strategic goals and guides how we act and 
the day-to-day decisions we all make. 
• We deliver: Ensuring everything we do meets 
the expectations of OEM partners, customers 
and colleagues. 
• Great experiences: We want our customers and 
everyone we work and partner with to have a 
great experience.
• Fresh thinking: We lead our industry by looking 
ahead and taking smart risks, anticipating changes 
in our markets to develop innovative and sustainable 
solutions that delight our customers.
• Better together: We achieve more by developing 
stronger teams that work better together.
Read more about One Inchcape here.
Our people make a big impact at Inchcape, helping to shape the 
future of mobility. We want to create an inclusive learning culture where 
everyone is empowered to reach their potential. We encourage all 
colleagues to share fresh thinking and deliver their best work by working 
with incredible Inchcapers and brands to help grow our global business. 
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
41
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Realise your potential: talent and development
Strengthening our Employee 
Value Proposition (“EVP”)
In 2024, Inchcape developed its Employee Value Proposition 
(“EVP”) under the strapline “Transforming Tomorrow, 
Together”; a strategic framework developed from extensive 
feedback gathered from colleagues across all functions, 
levels and regions. The EVP reflects our commitment to 
placing people at the heart of our business, ensuring a 
consistent and exceptional experience for every Inchcape 
colleague currently working with us, and those who may 
do so in the future.
The Inchcape EVP serves as a guiding platform to attract, 
retain and support the performance of our colleagues and 
propel our business forward. It sets clear expectations and 
creates the right environment to continue the growth of our 
dynamic business that’s ambition is to lead a transformation 
of our industry.
This programme offered important 
knowledge and experience necessary 
to discover the opportunities that 
exist in this industry. The environment 
consists of people who support you in 
your work and I felt like an important 
member of the team.
S U S T A I N A B L E R O U T E T O M A R K E T : P E O P L E
92%
would accept a role 
at Inchcape if offered
Ola Olajide, ESG Data Analyst 
and 2024 10K Intern Participant 
Importantly, the EVP is not just for colleagues - it also applies 
to anyone who engages with Inchcape from a talent 
perspective. It underpins how we talk about working at 
Inchcape, and how we position ourselves as an employer. 
To support the launch, we’ve created an EVP toolkit with 
guidance and ready-to-use messaging for job adverts, 
internal communications and recruitment campaigns. This 
helps us maintain a consistent tone of voice and a clear 
message about who we are, what we stand for and what 
people can expect when they join Inchcape. By applying 
our EVP in everything we say and do, we’re creating a more 
connected, inclusive and high-performing culture. 
778
colleagues participate in 
our Early Careers programme
Early careers 
In 2024, we had 778 colleagues participate in our Early 
Careers programme, which offers opportunities across 
multiple functions within our organisation, including 
aftersales, sales, corporate functions and digital. 
Through structured programmes and placements, handson training and mentorship, participants gain invaluable 
exposure to our global operations and work on real-world 
projects that shape the future of mobility.
In the past year, we strengthened our commitment to 
supporting early careers by launching the global Early 
Careers Experience Survey. This survey captures insights 
into participants’ experiences and measures each 
programme’s impact. The results were highly positive, with 
97% of participants reporting a meaningful impact on their 
career development, and 92% stating they would accept 
a role at Inchcape if offered. 
Early Careers is a vital part of our broader People strategy, 
ensuring we attract diverse talent and grow future leaders 
who understand our business as it evolves and are equipped 
to meet the challenges of tomorrow. 
GRI 401 – Employment
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
42
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market

--- PAGE BREAK ---

S P O T L I G H T : G E N D E R D I V E R S I T Y
BREAKING BARRIERS 
AT NMTECH
The automotive sector has traditionally been male 
dominated, particularly in technical roles. However, 
thanks to a growing partnership between Inchcape’s 
local Saipan business, Atkins Kroll, and the Northern 
Marianas Technical Institute (“NMTech”), new pathways 
are emerging for local talent, regardless of gender.
Recognising the importance of building a skilled and 
inclusive workforce, Inchcape partnered with NMTech 
to offer structured internships at Atkins Kroll. The initiative 
provides aspiring technicians with practical, hands-on 
experience and supports long-term employability for 
young people in the Northern Mariana Islands.
I was motivated to become a tech because I was fascinated by 
every aspect of the work. The opportunity to break stereotypes, 
work in a shop, and prove myself to those who doubted me only 
fuelled my motivation.
S U S T A I N A B L E R O U T E T O M A R K E T : P E O P L E
Aubriana-Maria Sablan: Lube Technician, Saipan
The Aspire programme enabled me realise 
that the challenges I faced were valid and 
that I was not alone, while connecting with 
women from various markets broadened my 
perspective and professional network. The 
practical wellness techniques were especially 
valuable, giving me tools to navigate my 
career with greater confidence and balance.
Hanum Vionita: Department Manager 
Quality Assurance, Indonesia
Aspire programme
We launched the Aspire programme in 2024 to equip female 
colleagues earlier in their careers with the skills, knowledge 
and support to fast-track their progression and contribute 
across our global operations. In its first year, 150+ women 
from diverse roles and all regions participated, reinforcing our 
commitment to inclusion and professional development. 
The global programme includes workshops, structured 
sessions and inspirational speakers, empowering participants 
with confidence and practical tools to support them to 
achieve their career goals.
Aspire supports our goal to increase female representation 
in senior leadership by supporting a pipeline of strong talent. 
Tracking and supporting KPIs around gender diversity across 
our workforce and in senior leadership enables us to measure 
progress and identify barriers. Future gender metrics are in 
development to continue driving gender balance. 
The programme reflects our commitment to developing 
talent, increasing the number of women in our succession 
pools and ensuring our leadership pipeline is diverse and 
inclusive. As it grows, it will further empower women, 
strengthen our culture and enhance business performance.
Aubriana Sablan’s journey into automotive technology 
began in 2022, when she joined NMTech’s one-week 
summer programme. The experience sparked a strong 
interest in the field, leading her to enrol in NMTech’s full-time 
Automotive Technology programme after finishing high 
school. As part of her training, she completed a 60-hour 
internship with Atkins Kroll, where she gained practical, 
hands-on experience working alongside trained technicians 
in a professional workshop setting.After completion, 
Aubriana was offered a permanent position Atkins Kroll and 
become Saipan’s first-ever female lubrication technician.
Programmes like this provide practical entry points into 
the automotive sector and are helping to improve gender 
representation in technical roles. Through its partnership with 
NMTech, Atkins Kroll continues to support skills development 
and local employability, with a focus on building a capable, 
community-based workforce. In 2025, Inchcape is aiming to 
develop more programmes globally to drive inclusion and 
widen opportunities available across markets.
Aubriana Sablan’s Journey into 
Automotive Technology
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
43
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market

--- PAGE BREAK ---

HEALTH 
AND SAFETY 
Management of health and safety 
Through work in 2024 and in previous years, Inchcape has 
successfully moved from a limited safety culture to a middle 
position on the recognised industry framework which we use 
to evaluate safety (the Hudson Ladder). There’s a growing 
sense of personal ownership for safety across the business, 
stronger systems in place to identify and manage risks, and 
a more proactive approach to learning from incidents 
and near-misses. 
Our progress is supported by a robust organisational 
structure for health and safety. Each region is assigned a 
regional health and safety manager who governs marketlevel health and safety departments or teams in each 
country in the region. Our central digital management 
system, certified to ISO 45001 standard and audited 
annually, provides a unified source for governing health 
and safety practices, distributing trainings and handling 
all records generated. 
All colleagues can log and report health and safety 
information to enable strong oversight. Performance metrics 
and incidents for this year can be found in the GRI content 
index on page 65. Improvements to practices are rolled 
out at the same time across all markets to ensure tracking, 
integration and continued global alignment.
Launching the Health and 
Safety Culture Survey 
In March 2024, we were proud to launch Inchcape’s first 
Group-wide Health and Safety Culture Survey (“HSCS"), 
distributed to over 15,000 employees in 20 languages. 
Designed to capture the views on Inchcape’s Health 
and Safety practices, our first survey produced a 
high degree of favourability across the five key 
areas surveyed: 
Topic 
Employees with a 
favourable response
Leadership and commitment to 
the HSE journey
83%
Management behaviours on HSE
82%
Employee ownership 
and responsibility
87%
Engagement in improvement
84%
Communication, education 
and resources 
85%
 
As well as highlighting strengths, the survey gave clear 
signals for what needs to be improved, in which market, 
to a strong degree of specificity. Action plans have 
been developed following the results of the survey and is 
monitored regionally, with quarterly reviews at the Group 
level. The survey will be run every two years to check 
progress and help guide long-term strategies. 
Implementing our contractor risk 
management database
We’ve created a comprehensive contractor management 
system to ensure all health and safety requirements we 
ask of our contractors are tracked and managed, serving 
as a centralised tool to enhance oversight and ensure 
compliance across markets. 
Developed in our HSE Management System, the database 
ensures all contractors can access general and site-specific 
induction training to support adherence to safety standards, 
task-specific compliance and insurance coverage. Input 
from all regional HSE teams has been instrumental in 
shaping the system, ensuring comprehensive functionality 
and relevance.
Integrating the Psychological Risk 
Assessment Survey
To address emerging legislative mandates and enhance our 
understanding of our colleagues’ psychological experience, 
a Psychological Risk Assessment Survey was developed and 
integrated into our HSE management system in 2024. This tool 
enables assessments of workplace psychological risks, with 
the flexibility to adapt to market-specific requirements.
Initial results indicated positive outcomes, with no urgent 
mitigation required. The survey also established a scalable 
framework for future assessments, ensuring the organisation 
remains equipped to address psychological risks over the 
next three years.
Establishment of HSE Centres of Excellence
The HSE department successfully launched Centres of 
Excellence (“CoE”) in 2024 to strengthen safety expertise 
and enhance organisational alignment. Under the 
new CoE structure, regional HSE functions report in a 
standardised structure to a Group-wide department, 
allowing a streamlined pooling of knowledge and 
training to align health and safety direction globally. 
This creates global consistency, and provides HSE with a 
dedicated department with one Group-wide authority.
S U S T A I N A B L E R O U T E T O M A R K E T : P E O P L E
Safety is central to how we work at 
Inchcape. Our day-to-day activities 
as an automotive distributor involve 
operating vehicles and machinery, 
and exposing workers to potential 
health and safety risks that we work 
proactively to understand and mitigate. 
2024 was an outstanding year 
of progress on health and safety. 
Numerous milestones were achieved 
at both Group and market levels, 
supporting our ongoing commitment 
to fostering a robust safety culture, 
improving operational safety and 
aligning with global best practices. 
Committed to health, safety and wellbeing
OUR PROGRESS IN 2024
GRI 403 – Occupational Health and Safety
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
44
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Acquisitions and integration 
ONE 
INCHCAPE 
CULTURE 
Our approach to integration
Mergers and acquisitions (“M&A") are a critical enabler 
of our Accelerate+ strategy, supporting both Distribution 
Excellence and Value Added Services, and strengthening 
our institutional expertise with every transaction.
With every acquisition, we strengthen our expertise and 
refine our approach to integrations, building a deep 
institutional knowledge that we call our M&A playbook. 
This playbook captures key learnings, providing a 
structured roadmap for managing M&A transactions 
across Inchcape.
While each acquisition and market present unique 
challenges, our playbook ensures a globally consistent 
and scalable approach. For our People teams, it serves 
as a practical guide, equipping them with the tools, 
templates and best practices needed to prepare for and 
execute acquisitions and the subsequent integrations. 
By leveraging insights from past successes, we streamline 
colleague onboarding to create a strong foundation for 
long-term growth.
C A S E S T U D Y : O N E I N C H C A P E A M B A S S A D O R S
BUILDING A 
UNIFIED CULTURE
The challenge
The acquisition of Derco, one of Latin America’s 
largest automotive distributors and Inchcape’s biggest 
acquisition in more than 50 years, was a major step 
for Inchcape in 2023. Integrating a business of this size 
brought both operational and cultural challenges, and 
our integration work has continued into 2024. As well as 
aligning systems and processes, it was important to make 
sure every colleague felt supported, respected and 
confident about the Inchcape integration process.
Inchcape’s response
To support a smooth transition and foster a One 
Inchcape culture, we retained our Integration 
Ambassador programme, which played a key role 
during the first year of integration. In 2024, we evolved 
the programme into the One Inchcape Ambassadors, 
broadening the ambassadors’ focus to actively foster 
the One Inchcape culture in their markets.
Nominated locally, ambassadors were selected to 
reflect each market’s specific needs to help grow our 
global business, with particular focus on supporting areas 
facing the greatest change. These colleagues play an 
important role in supporting others through new ways of 
working – sharing knowledge, encouraging collaboration 
and helping to embed a consistent culture that reflects 
our values. By connecting people and reinforcing the 
behaviours that underpin high performance, they’re 
helping us build a stronger, more unified Inchcape.
The programme was designed with autonomy in 
mind, allowing ambassadors to address local market 
challenges while maintaining regular engagement with 
leadership teams. They organised local sessions to identify 
opportunities, addressed market-specific challenges and 
attended monthly meetings to share best practices and 
insights across different markets.
The outcome
The programme provided valuable bottom-up 
perspectives, helping leadership address integration 
challenges in real time. A few examples of how each 
group of ambassadors took an active role in addressing 
the integration challenges that emerged during the 
second year of the journey:
• In Colombia, ambassadors identified onboarding issues 
following the merger of two offices. Through a local 
initiative called The Integration Route, they facilitated 
listening sessions that surfaced concerns and led to 
targeted actions by leadership, significantly improving 
the experience for colleagues transitioning to a new 
work location;
• In Peru, during the implementation of a new 
operating model, ambassadors conducted interviews 
across teams to understand challenges in adapting to 
change. They analysed the findings, shared them with 
senior leaders and helped shape action plans in close 
collaboration with area leads; and
• At the regional level, to promote a culture of open 
doors and strengthen team identity, ambassadors 
launched the Open Coffee initiative. These informal 
sessions brought vice presidents together with team 
members from different functions, encouraging the 
exchange of perspectives, clarifying doubts and 
fostering cross-functional understanding. 
With the successful integration of Derco now complete, 
the One Inchcape Ambassadors initiative has proven to 
be an effective approach to support large-scale cultural 
integration, and an important way for colleagues to 
share their voice.
S U S T A I N A B L E R O U T E T O M A R K E T : P E O P L E
The success of this programme has established 
a strong foundation for future acquisitions. As 
Inchcape continues to grow, we will build on this 
model to ensure that cultural integration remains 
a collaborative, inclusive and seamless process 
across all markets.
Looking forward
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
45
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Inclusion & diversity
A WORKPLACE WHERE 
EVERYONE CAN THRIVE
We believe that our people are 
our greatest strength, and we are 
committed to creating a workplace 
where everyone feels valued, 
respected and empowered to thrive. 
By fostering an inclusive culture and 
embracing diversity in all its forms, 
we unlock innovation, drive better 
decision-making and build stronger 
connections with the communities we 
serve. Inclusion and diversity are not just 
part of our values – they are integral to 
our success as a global organisation.
Inclusive & diverse hiring 
We are committed to fostering an inclusive culture that 
attracts and empowers talent from the widest possible 
range of backgrounds. Inclusive hiring is central to this, 
ensuring we access the best talent while creating a fair 
and supportive experience for every candidate.
In 2024, we expanded our global inclusion and diversity 
training to promote informed, unbiased hiring decisions 
across our markets. Over 1,200 Inchcape colleagues 
participated in this two-hour interactive training 
programme, designed to enhance confidence in inclusive 
hiring, highlight areas where unconscious bias might 
influence decision-making and provide practical tools for 
equitable recruitment practices. 
Delivering the Inclusive Hiring Training across our Andean Cluster as part 
of the global roll-out was a fantastic experience. We equipped our hiring 
teams with the knowledge and tools to make fair, informed decisions. 
It’s inspiring to see 97% of participants confirm that they feel more 
confident in applying inclusive hiring practices - ensuring we build teams 
that truly reflect the richness of our communities and contribute to our 
sustainable growth.
S U S T A I N A B L E R O U T E T O M A R K E T : P E O P L E
Nancy Soto Asalde, Talent Acquisition 
Lead, Andean Cluster
82%
inclusion score in our Be Heard Survey 
(upper quartile) – A standout strength 
and a best-in-class global organisation
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
46
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Be Heard Survey 2024 
RESULTS FROM THE 2024 
 
BE HEARD SURVEY
Our annual Be Heard colleague 
engagement survey plays a vital 
role in helping us understand and 
respond to the needs of our global 
workforce. It captures valuable 
feedback on colleagues’ views, 
sentiments and overall satisfaction, 
enabling us to improve our people 
and line management as well as align 
our People initiatives with colleagues’ 
feedback. The survey also serves 
as a critical tool to measure our 
performance in Inclusion and diversity, 
talent development and wellbeing, 
which are central to our People pillar.
In 2024, we saw an impressive participation rate, with 90% 
of colleagues worldwide sharing their perspectives. This 
reflects the continued engagement and trust of our global 
team. Our Inclusion and Wellbeing scores placed us in the 
top 25% of global companies – a testament to the strength 
of our culture and commitment to creating a supportive, 
inclusive workplace.
Other key areas of strength included advocacy (colleagues 
recommending our products and services), role enablement 
(clarity on role expectations) and alignment with our One 
Inchcape values and ethical work practices. 
However, there is always room for improvement. To gain 
deeper insights and develop meaningful solutions, we 
hosted focus groups in late 2024. The recommendations 
from these sessions – built around enhancing career 
development, wellbeing and strategy understanding and 
alignment – will guide our efforts to further enhance the 
experiences of our colleagues.
Understanding colleague experience in 2025
To foster an inclusive and engaging workplace, we are 
launching lifecycle surveys to gain deeper insights into the 
colleague experience. These surveys will track key career 
stages – from onboarding to progression and exit–helping us 
enhance engagement, professional growth and our position 
as an employer of choice.
90%
Participation rate
*Results not directly comparable to 2023, due to a change in base size
C A S E S T U D Y
EMPOWERING CAREER 
GROWTH THROUGH 
CONVERSATIONS
The challenge
The 2023 Be Heard survey revealed that colleagues wanted more 
ownership of their career development and structured discussions on longterm aspirations. Without clear guidance, career progression felt uncertain.
Inchcape’s solution
We introduced the Career Conversations Toolkit to help colleagues 
discuss aspirations, identify growth opportunities and make informed 
career decisions. It also equips managers with tools to support and 
guide their teams effectively.
Impact
This initiative fosters open dialogue, career ownership and continuous 
development. Colleagues feel more confident shaping their careers, 
while managers are better prepared to support progression.
Our 16% increase in the career development score in 
Bolivia shows the real impact in helping our colleagues 
to feel more empowered and excited about their future.
S U S T A I N A B L E R O U T E T O M A R K E T : P E O P L E
82%
Inclustion score
77%
Overall engagement score
74%
Wellbeing score
71%
Intent to stay score
Inchcape is committed to career growth, mentorship and 
opportunity. Building on this toolkit, we will further embed a 
culture of growth across the organisation. Career conversations 
training will be delivered to line managers in 2025 and shorter 
toolkit will be launched for front-line workers. 
Looking forward
Michelle Noriega, General Manager, Bolivia
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
47
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market

--- PAGE BREAK ---

S U S T A I N A B L E R O U T E T O M A R K E T
49
Positively contributing to the communities 
in which we operate
50
Social inclusion 
51
Road safety 
52
Looking forward 
 
1,700+
colleagues have been engaged in 84 initiatives
 
10,000
community members have positively 
impacted by our initiatives in the Places pillar 
20
women participated in new technician 
programme in Uruguay
21
4oad safety initiatives
By investing in inclusive mobility solutions, 
skills development, and safety initiatives, 
we help communities thrive – because 
when they do, so do we.
Petar Ilov: General Manager TM Auto West, Bulgaria
PLACES
COMMUNITY-ORIENTED 
ROUTE TO MARKET
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
48
inchcape.com

--- PAGE BREAK ---

S U S T A I N A B L E R O U T E T O M A R K E T : P L A C E S
The Places pillar focuses on understanding 
the impacts of our business on local 
communities and building partnerships 
and initiatives that amplify these benefits. 
We recognise the strong link between 
access to transportation and economic 
progress, and we are committed to 
ensuring that our operations meaningfully 
contribute to community development, 
health and wellbeing. 
POSITIVELY 
CONTRIBUTING TO 
THE COMMUNITIES 
IN WHICH WE 
OPERATE
Our efforts are centred on two key 
aspects of sustainable mobility
Social inclusion
We support under-represented communities 
by providing tailored mobility solutions and 
access to future-ready skills. Through partnerships 
and programmes, we deliver education, work 
experience and internships focused on EV and 
digital skills. By working with NGOs and local 
initiatives, we help make mobility more accessible 
and create new opportunities for those who need 
them most (read more on page 49). 
Road safety
We advocate for road safety by supporting 
awareness campaigns, education initiatives and 
partnerships that promote safer driving and reduce 
road accidents. For example, Inchcape Australasia 
is collaborating with Subaru to achieve their goal 
of zero fatal road accidents by 2030, illustrating our 
commitment to safer roads (read more on page 50). 
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
49
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market

--- PAGE BREAK ---

In 2024, Inchcape expanded its efforts to make mobility 
and skills development more accessible to underrepresented communities. This year we have provided 
training, education and social mobility solutions through 63 
targeted initiatives worldwide.
A key focus has been equipping people with futureready skills. Our programmes offer technician training 
and reskilling opportunities, ensuring more individuals, 
regardless of background, can access careers in the 
evolving mobility sector. We also delivered EV safety 
training, supporting both communities and emergency 
services in adapting to new technologies.
Beyond skills development, local partnerships drive our 
impact. From accessibility training for customer service 
teams to collaborations with schools and non-profits, our 
initiatives are shaped by the needs of the communities 
we serve. We also engage in health and wellbeing efforts, 
such as blood drives and events that align with local 
cultures and traditions.
By taking a locally led approach, Inchcape is helping to 
remove barriers, create opportunities and build a more 
inclusive mobility ecosystem.
Social Inclusion 
S U S T A I N A B L E R O U T E T O M A R K E T : P L A C E S
It’s been great to see the participants grow 
in confidence as they went through the 
programme. Their attention to detail and 
willingness to learn has been impressive – 
I have no doubt they’ll do well in the industry.
I believe that no industry is about gender, but 
about passion, knowledge and dedication. 
Being a woman in this field has taught me to 
be stronger, persevering and self-confident. 
Today I feel proud to represent other women 
who are also breaking stereotypes.
C A S E S T U D Y : I N C H C A P E ’ S I M PAC T
EMPOWERING WOMEN THROUGH 
MECHANICS TRAINING IN URUGUAY
The challenge
In many communities, women face persistent barriers 
to entering skilled industries like automotive, often 
due to limited access to training and employment 
pathways. In Uruguay, Inchcape saw an opportunity 
to respond at a local level by partnering with grassroots 
organisations to create a hands-on, inclusive training 
programme designed to equip women with the skills 
and confidence to pursue technical careers.
Inchcape’s solution
In 2023, Inchcape Uruguay hosted a visit from students of 
Casa de la Mujer de la Unión, a non-profit organisation 
with over 35 years of experience in gender advocacy. 
Inspired by the visit, colleagues proposed a training 
initiative, which led to the launch of the Basic Mechanics 
Training for Women programme in 2024. The programme 
was developed in partnership with Casa de la Mujer and 
supported by a grant from Uruguay’s National Institute of 
Employment and Professional Training (“INEFOP").
In its first year, the programme offered a comprehensive 
curriculum combining mechanical training with business 
skills development in areas such as HR and customer 
experience. Awareness-building sessions were also 
introduced, including a June 2024 panel with participation 
from government officials and industry leaders, attended 
by more than 50 people. By the end of the year, 20 women 
had participated in an intensive eight-month course. 
Impact
The programme has provided participants with hands-on 
experience, mentorship from Inchcape colleagues and 
direct exposure to professional workshops. This initiative has 
not only improved technical proficiency but also boosted 
confidence and employability, enabling women to pursue 
careers in the automotive industry. 
Bettina Sanchez, People Business Partner, 
Uruguay & Argentina
Micaela Cabrera, Warehouse Assistant, Uruguay
Inchcape remains committed to driving social mobility and inclusion by expanding this initiative across more 
markets. Plans are already underway to introduce the programme in Guatemala, Ecuador and Colombia. 
By providing women with technical training and clear career pathways, we are helping to strengthen local 
communities and build a more diverse, inclusive automotive industry.
Looking forward
PROMOTING 
SOCIAL INCLUSION
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
50
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Road safety
CREATING SAFER 
ROADS AND 
COMMUNITIES
We are dedicated to making roads 
safer and reducing accidents across 
all the markets we serve. As a global 
organisation, we take our responsibility 
seriously when it comes to promoting 
responsible driving and supporting 
road safety.
In 2024, we delivered over 21 road 
safety initiatives around the world. By 
working closely with our OEM partners, 
we have been able to reach thousands 
of people, reinforcing our commitment 
to building safer, stronger communities.
C A S E S T U D Y
EXPANDING SAFE MOBILITY 
IN NEW ZEALAND WITH SUBARU
The challenge
Road safety remains a critical issue worldwide, with young 
drivers particularly vulnerable to accidents. Our OEM partner, 
Subaru, has set an ambitious goal of achieving zero fatal road 
accidents in its vehicles by 2030. To support this vision, Inchcape 
Australasia and Subaru expanded on their road safety initiatives 
in Australia and implemented a road safety partnership in New 
Zealand, ensuring that young drivers receive the education and 
practical training needed to develop safer driving habits.
Inchcape’s solution
Following on from the successful long-term partnership between 
Subaru and the Australian Road Safety Foundation in Australia, 
in 2024, Subaru and Inchcape Australasia entered into a 
partnership in New Zealand with Street Smart, driven by Tony 
Quinn Foundation Road Safety. The programme offers practical 
driver training, helping equip young drivers with essential skills 
to navigate roads safely, manage distractions and make 
informed decisions.
As the official vehicle partner, Subaru provides vehicles including 
the Impreza, Crosstrek and WRX for hands-on training sessions 
at leading facilities, including Hampton Downs and Taupō 
International Motorsport Parks. These controlled environments 
allow young drivers to gain real-world experience in safe and 
supervised conditions.
Impact
By expanding our road safety initiatives to New Zealand, Subaru and 
Inchcape are helping ensure that more young drivers have access to 
critical training, fostering safer driving habits and reducing road risks. 
The programme enhances driver confidence and preparedness, aligning 
with our broader mission to promote road safety across the region.
S U S T A I N A B L E R O U T E T O M A R K E T : P L A C E S
This initiative shows how we bring global partnerships to life in 
local markets. With Subaru and Street Smart, we’re equipping 
the next generation of New Zealander drivers with the skills 
and confidence to navigate our roads safely – a powerful 
step towards safer roads and communities.
Kym Mellow: General Manager, New Zealand
Inchcape remains dedicated to advancing safe mobility through strategic 
partnerships and community-driven initiatives. As we continue working with 
Subaru, we aim to further expand access to driver education programmes, 
helping to shape a safer future on the roads.
Looking forward
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
51
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Looking ahead to Places 
BUILDING ON THE 
WORK WE DO IN 
OUR COMMUNITIES
2025 plans for Places
Inchcape remains committed to expanding its impact 
by enhancing safe mobility and social inclusion efforts 
across our markets. In 2025, our focus will be on scaling 
our initiatives, strengthening engagement and improving 
impact measurement to ensure our efforts drive 
meaningful and lasting change.
• Scaling our reach – We will map opportunities for 
expansion, identifying where we can grow our 
programmes and enhance their impact while 
staying aligned with our shared values.
• Strengthening communications and engagement – 
We will continue increasing visibility of our initiatives, 
sharing best practices and impact stories both 
internally and externally to inspire further action.
Measuring social impact
Through these efforts, Inchcape strives to make mobility 
safe, inclusive and a driver of positive change in the 
communities we serve. However, we recognise the 
challenges in measuring social impact effectively. 
While we are committed to tracking and improving our 
initiatives, data collection in some areas remains limited. 
As we refine our approach, we will explore new ways 
to better quantify and report on our progress, ensuring 
transparency and continuous improvement in our social 
inclusion efforts. 
S U S T A I N A B L E R O U T E T O M A R K E T : P L A C E S
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
52
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market

--- PAGE BREAK ---

S U S T A I N A B L E R O U T E T O M A R K E T
54
Communicating our Sustainability Framework
55
Code of Conduct
56
Procurement
56
Governance
57
Open Doors Policy
58
Cybersecurity
58
Data privacy
OPEN DOORS 
POLICY
launched in the Americas, boosting direct dialogue 
and strengthening trust across teams 
 
10,726
colleagues completed our new 
Code of Conduct training 
SUPPLIERS
New GHG and sustainability questionnaires for all 
suppliers to improve visibility of indirect emissions
CYBERSECURITY
Enhanced training and controls 
across our global operations 
Running our business with integrity is 
about creating the right conditions for 
people to act responsibly, every day.
Francisco Silva: S&OP Premium Team Lead, 
Automotive Premium, Chile
PRACTICES
HIGH INTEGRITY 
ROUTE TO MARKET
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
53
inchcape.com

--- PAGE BREAK ---

EMBEDDING SUSTAINABILITY ENGAGEMENT 
ACROSS OUR GLOBAL BUSINESS
Since publishing our first Sustainability 
Report in early 2024 and delivering our new 
Sustainability Framework, we have deepened 
our engagement with colleagues and external 
stakeholders to embed sustainability across how 
we operate. This engagement is essential to 
ensuring shared understanding and ownership of 
our sustainability priorities – across our company 
and throughout our value chain.
By building stronger connections with our colleagues, 
investors, policymakers and OEM partners, we continue 
to drive alignment behind our role in the global mobility 
transition and the actions we are taking to shape the 
future of mobility and accelerate sustainable outcomes 
in our markets.
Communicating our Sustainability framework
Engaging colleagues on 
our sustainability journey
We know that delivering a sustainable future 
must be delivered through our people. In 2024, 
we focused on providing clear, accessible 
information to colleagues. This included:
 
– Live webinars: Three global sessions attracted over 
7,000 views, sparking rich discussions and building a 
shared understanding of our Sustainability Framework;
 
– Alignment workshops: Held across markets 
and functions, with 79% of participants 
reporting increased confidence or ability to 
communicate our sustainability priorities; and
 
– Digital platforms: We launched a dedicated 
Sustainability intranet page and a new 
internal Sustainability Community to support 
knowledge-sharing and continuous learning.
Strengthening 
external engagement
Externally, we sharpened our communications and 
engagement with key stakeholder groups to reinforce 
our role as an enabler of the mobility transition. 
Highlights from 2024 include:
 
– Investor outreach: We introduced ESG-focused 
fireside chats, providing institutional investors with 
deeper insights into our strategy and progress; and 
 
– Social engagement: A targeted LinkedIn campaign 
directed to colleagues, OEMs and investors on 
the 2023 Sustainability Report achieved a 24.1% 
engagement rate, reinforcing high levels of 
interest in Inchcape’s sustainability approach 
and performance.
We’re focused on making sustainability clear, 
relevant and accessible so all our stakeholders 
- from colleagues to external partners - can see 
how they’re part of the journey and feel more 
confident taking action.”
Mark McCarthy: Group Communications 
& Engagement Director
Looking ahead 
Our communications and engagement efforts 
will continue to evolve in line with stakeholder 
expectations and global best practice. As we 
refine our strategic priorities and reporting, we 
will also focus on:
 
– Highlighting learnings and progress to date;
 
– Increasing transparency around key challenges 
and future priorities; and 
 
– Empowering stakeholders to play an active role in 
our shared journey.
Through consistent and targeted engagement, we 
are creating greater alignment, accelerating action 
and reinforcing trust. These connections will be critical 
as we continue to lead the transition to sustainable 
mobility, locally and globally.
S U S T A I N A B L E R O U T E T O M A R K E T : P R A C T I C E S
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
54
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Behaviours 
expected from 
our colleagues
Business ethics 
and transparency
Guidelines 
for nurturing 
relationships 
with stakeholders
Commitments 
to I&D, antidiscrimination and 
health and safety
Compliance 
topics including 
anti-bribery and 
corruption, conflicts 
of interest, fraud 
and more
Planet 
commitments 
reflecting 
our evolved 
responsibilities 
and targets
How to Speak 
Up if the Code 
is breached
Inchcape code of conduct
GRI 308 – Supplier Environmental Assessment 
GRI 414 – Supplier Social Assessment
CODE OF CONDUCT: ENSURING 
WORLD-CLASS OPERATIONAL STANDARDS
Code of Conduct
Governance is central to how we 
do business. Operating in 38 markets, 
Inchcape upholds high ethical 
standards, ensuring every colleague 
understands their responsibilities.
In 2023, we rolled out an updated Code of Conduct 
across 35 markets, embedding it into onboarding and 
making it accessible via our HR system and intranet. 
The Code is refreshed every two years, with mandatory 
training for all colleagues, including acquisitions. In 
interim years, re-attestation reinforces accountability 
with10,726 colleagues completing this in 2024. A 
refreshed Code of Conduct and training will launch 
globally in September 2025.
S U S T A I N A B L E R O U T E T O M A R K E T : P R A C T I C E S
Supplier code of conduct 
Beyond internal policies, we are also enhancing our Supplier 
Code of Conduct to ensure our ethical, human rights and 
environmental standards are upheld consistently across 
our supply chain. These efforts, along with regular reviews 
of key policies covering anti-bribery and corruption, antimoney laundering, anti-trust and data protection, reinforce 
Inchcape’s position as a responsible business - trusted by 
OEM partners, colleagues and investors alike.
Global Policy Handbook: 
Strengthening accessibility and compliance
The Global Policy Handbook ensures all colleagues have clear, 
accessible guidance on Inchcape’s policies, supporting a safe 
and compliant work environment. In 2024, we enhanced its 
reach by translating it into all Inchcape languages and making 
it available on the People Hub and Intranet. To reinforce 
accountability, we introduced a Policy Responsibility Process, 
ensuring clarity on ownership and adherence.
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
55
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market

--- PAGE BREAK ---

S U S T A I N A B L E R O U T E T O M A R K E T : P R A C T I C E S
Governance
RUNNING OUR BUSINESS 
WITH INTEGRITY
Governing our business
Our strategy is guided by strong governance, ensuring the 
Board and Group Executive Team (“GET") remain closely 
engaged with sustainability. In 2024, we strengthened 
this approach by reforming the CSR Committee into the 
Sustainability Committee, with delegated authority from the 
Board to oversee the Group’s sustainability strategy and 
narrative. Comprising four Non-Executive Directors and the 
Group Chief Executive, the Committee meets three times a 
year, with additional sessions as needed, to drive progress 
on sustainability and colleague engagement. We continue 
to enhance ESG knowledge at the Board level, through 
continuous expert-led sessions on regulatory developments 
and investor perspectives. 
You can read a full update on the Sustainability Committee’s 
activities in 2024, as well as Inchcape’s governance structure 
and Board responsibilities, in our 2024 Annual Report.
Governance of the Practices pillar
The Practices pillar is governed by a global plan and priorities, 
ensuring alignment with Inchcape’s ethical and compliance 
standards. The Practices pillar team meet bi-monthly, bringing 
together senior colleagues from legal, internal audit, tax, 
cybersecurity, people and communications to oversee 
key initiatives. This collaborative approach strengthens 
governance, enhances risk management, and drives 
continuous improvement across all markets.
Whistleblowing: Encouraging a Speak Up! culture
We are committed to fostering a culture where colleagues 
feel safe, supported and empowered to speak up about 
concerns without fear of retaliation. Our Speak Up! policy 
provides a confidential and secure channel for reporting 
unethical behaviour, misconduct or potential breaches of our 
Code of Conduct. To enhance oversight and responsiveness, 
we are also developing a Speak Up Dashboard, providing 
real-time visibility into reported concerns and ensuring they 
are addressed promptly and appropriately.
To complement our Speak Up! formal mechanism of 
reporting, we introduced an Open Doors Policy and 
e-learning programme, a more informal route between 
colleagues and managers, starting with the Americas, to 
further embed a culture of openness and transparency. 
These initiatives reinforce Inchcape’s commitment to ethical 
business practices, accountability and a workplace where 
every colleague’s voice is heard.
Procurement
ENSURING HIGH INTEGRITY 
IN OUR SUPPLY CHAINS
Procurement plays a key role in 
delivering a sustainable, ethical 
route to market for our OEM 
partners and customers.
In 2024, we strengthened procurement 
governance by rolling out a 
centralised digital system, improving 
standardisation, efficiency and 
transparency across all markets.
To enhance sustainability, we introduced mandatory 
GHG and sustainability questionnaires for all suppliers, 
providing insight into our indirect environmental impact 
and guiding future emissions reduction targets.
A central contract database ensures all supplier 
agreements align with Inchcape’s ethical standards, 
while updated delegated authorities promote 
accountability and fair competition.
We continue to address modern slavery, with 
approximately 80 colleagues from the Procurement and 
Finance functions completing modern slavery training 
in 2024 and carrying out regular reviews of our OEM 
partners’ approach to combating modern slavery in 
their supply chains. In accordance with UK legislation, 
Inchcape’s Modern Slavery Statement is published on 
our website. 
These improvements reinforce governance, sustainability 
and ethical sourcing, ensuring long-term success and 
strengthening our Sustainability commitments.
GRI 308 – Supplier Environmental Assessment 
GRI 414 – Supplier Social Assessment
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
56
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market

--- PAGE BREAK ---

S U S T A I N A B L E R O U T E T O M A R K E T : P R A C T I C E S
STRENGTHENING 
TRUST AND 
TRANSPARENCY 
IN THE AMERICAS
We believe that building a culture 
of openness, respect and trust is 
essential to being a responsible 
business and a great place to work. 
In 2024, our Americas region 
introduced the Open Doors Policy, 
designed to encourage colleagues to 
speak directly with their line managers 
or trusted leaders when they have 
concerns, questions or suggestions.
FOSTERING OPEN DIALOGUE 
THROUGH THE OPEN DOORS POLICY
The challenge
Creating a workplace culture built on 
openness, respect and trust is fundamental to 
being a responsible business and an employer 
of choice. In the Americas, we saw a high 
number of Speak Up! reports indicating that 
colleagues felt empowered to voice concerns. 
However, the high number also highlighted 
an opportunity to strengthen local channels 
for direct conversations, enabling quicker 
resolution of issues and stronger connections 
between colleagues and leaders.
Inchcape’s solution
In 2024, Inchcape’s Americas region introduced 
the Open Doors Policy, encouraging colleagues 
to engage directly with their line managers 
or trusted leaders when they have concerns, 
questions or suggestions. This initiative aims 
to facilitate open conversations, foster 
inclusivity and build a more collaborative 
working environment.
To ensure successful adoption, the policy was 
launched with strong leadership sponsorship 
and a region-wide communications campaign. 
Leadership briefings, manager training, digital 
signage, office reminders and colleague 
newsletters reinforced the message: if something 
doesn’t feel right, leaders are ready to listen.
Impact
The Open Doors Policy is embedding a culture 
where every colleague feels heard, valued and 
respected. Confidentiality remains at the core, 
ensuring colleagues can speak freely without 
fear of reprisal. Where formal investigation or 
escalation is needed, support is provided, with 
the Speak Up! channel remaining available as 
an alternative option.
Early feedback from colleagues and managers 
has been positive. Internal survey results show 
strong awareness of how to raise concerns, 
while managers report an increase in open, 
constructive conversations within their teams. By 
encouraging direct engagement, the policy is 
strengthening trust and enabling faster resolution 
of workplace issues.
C A S E S T U D Y
The Americas is serving as a pilot for the Open Doors Policy, with plans for expansion 
across Asia Pacific, Europe & Africa, and our Group offices in 2025. This reflects Inchcape’s 
commitment to embedding a consistent, people-first approach to communication across 
all markets, aligned with our One Inchcape values.
By fostering open dialogue and providing accessible channels for colleagues to raise 
concerns, Inchcape is reinforcing its ethical standards and strengthening its inclusive culture. 
The Open Doors Policy also demonstrates our commitment to the Practices pillar, ensuring 
we uphold the highest standards of governance, ethics and care for our people.
Looking forward
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
57
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Cybersecurity and data privacy
BUILDING RESILIENCE 
ACROSS MARKETS
Cybersecurity is not just a technical 
imperative but a business enabler for 
Inchcape. With operations spanning 38 
markets, we take a global approach to 
managing cyber risks while empowering 
our regional leads to address local 
challenges effectively.
Our strategy emphasises ‘security by design’, ensuring 
robust preventive and detective controls are in place across 
our global operations. This approach combines advanced 
preventative controls with robust detection mechanisms to 
mitigate risks proactively. Our efforts are aligned with the 
NIST framework, underscoring maturity in risk management 
and resilience.
A key focus is fostering a strong security culture. This 
involves delivering engaging and relatable cybersecurity 
training, tailored to different roles. This year, we replaced 
single annual training sessions with frequent, targeted 
modules, covering topics like phishing awareness and 
data protection for all colleagues.
In addition to enhancing awareness, we have refined 
core processes such as supplier onboarding and risk 
management. We work closely with business leaders to 
ensure initiatives are aligned with cybersecurity standards, 
identifying and mitigating risks collaboratively. Regular 
Board updates ensure transparency and alignment with 
business goals.
We understand the evolving cyber threat landscape and 
are committed to preventing incidents through strong 
safeguards. At the same time, we prioritise readiness 
and resilience, ensuring quick and effective responses 
to minimise potential impacts on our operations.
Data privacy 
In 2024, we launched a Group-wide Data Privacy Internal 
Controls Framework to ensure consistent standards across 
all markets. It covers policies, data breach management, 
processing, training and governance. Each market now 
has a local data privacy lead, supported by a Global 
Data Privacy Champion to drive best practices.
To enhance governance, data privacy compliance is now 
part of internal audits, guided by a global risk matrix. Our 
2024 compliance score stands at 86%, with ongoing efforts 
to embed privacy-by-design in systems and processes.
Looking ahead, we will enhance Records of Processing 
Activities (“ROPA"), update data processing agreements 
and introduce an AI Governance Framework to ensure 
responsible AI use.
These measures embed data privacy across our operations, 
reinforcing responsible business practices, data protection 
and transparency.
S U S T A I N A B L E R O U T E T O M A R K E T : P R A C T I C E S
GRI 418 – Customer Privacy
Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
58
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
59
GRI CONTENT INDEX
The following index provides readers with references for locating content of interest, 
and supplies commentary where required. The GRI Standards are one of the most 
widely adopted global standards for sustainability reporting. We’ve chosen to report 
in accordance with GRI in order to improve the coverage of our reporting on an 
ongoing basis, and to help stakeholders and report users track our progress. 
Annual Report 2024
AR
Sustainability Report 2024 (this report)
SR
Note on omissions
Disclosure points which are currently unavailable in the below standards are omitted as 
‘information unavailable’ for GRI purposes. 
GRI standard title
Disclosure number
Disclosure name
Source and commentary 
GRI 2: General 
Disclosures
2-1
Organisational details
‘Inchcape plc’. Inchcape is a publicly traded company headquartered in London at 22a St James’s Square, London SW1Y 5LP. Our countries of operation can be 
found on  AR p. 13 and undertakings on AR ps. 204-210.
2-2
Entities included in 
the organisation’s 
sustainability reporting
AR ps. 204-210 
Inchcape’s subsidiaries can be found in the AR .
2-3
Reporting period, frequency, 
and contact point
The reporting period covered by this report is the 1 January 2024 to 31 December 2024, unless stated otherwise. Sustainability reporting is conducted annually. 
The reporting periods are aligned with financial reporting. For more information about this report please contact contact@inchcape.com. 
2-4
Restatements of information
No restatements during the reporting period, with the exception of GHG calculations (see disclosure 305-1 – 305-4). 
2-5 
External assurance
No external assurance has been sought for sustainability reporting. 
2-6
Activities, value chain and 
other business relationships
AR ps. 4-17
Inchcape is a leading independent global automotive distributor. It is classified within the FTSE subsector ‘Business Support Services’.
2-7, 2-8
Employees; Workers who are 
not employees
Data provided as at 31 December 2024. ‘Region unknown’ means colleagues were being onboarded at this time and regional data was not yet assigned. 
Total employees
Gender
Americas
APAC
Europe & Africa
Region unknown
Group
Total
Female
2682
1633
806
5
72
5198
Male
5963
3597
2732
86
12378
Other
5
5
Undeclared
3
4
7
Grand total
8645
5238
3538
9
158
17588
A P P E N D I X

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
60
Annual Report 2024
AR
Sustainability Report 2024 (this report)
SR
GRI standard title
Disclosure number
Disclosure name
Source and commentary 
GRI 2: General 
Disclosures continued
2-7, 2-8 
continued
Employees; Workers who are 
not employees continued
Permanent employees
Gender
Americas
APAC
Europe & Africa
Region unknown
Group
Total
Female
2612
1582
753
5
70
5022
Male
5868
3455
2557
76
11956
Other
5
5
Undeclared
3
4
7
Grand total
8480
5045
3310
9
146
16990
Temporary employees
Gender
Americas
APAC
Europe & Africa
Region unknown
Group
Total
Female
70
50
50
2
172
Male
94
142
150
10
396
Other
Undeclared
Grand total
164
192
200
12
568
Temporary employees here refers to fixed term contracts. Temporary employees typically cover periods of holiday or other absences.
Non-guaranteed hours employees
Gender
Americas
APAC
Europe & Africa
Region unknown
Group
Total
Female
2
2
Male
3
2
5
Other
Undeclared
1
1
Grand total
4
4
8
Full-time employees (FTE: 1 or above)
Gender
Americas
APAC
Europe & Africa
Region unknown
Group
Total
Female
2680
1579
801
62
5122
Male
5952
3574
2725
84
12335
Other
5
5
Undeclared
2
2
Grand total
8632
5160
3526
146
17464
A P P E N D I X

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
61
Annual Report 2024
AR
Sustainability Report 2024 (this report)
SR
GRI standard title
Disclosure number
Disclosure name
Source and commentary 
GRI 2: General 
Disclosures continued
2-7, 2-8 
continued
Employees; Workers who are 
not employees continued
Part-time employees (FTE: 0.99 or below)
Gender
Americas
APAC
Europe & Africa
Region unknown
Group
Total
Female
2
54
5
5
10
76
Male
11
23
7
2
43
Other
Undeclared
1
4
5
Grand total
13
78
12
9
12
124
A high proportion of colleagues on a fixed term contract are on an Early Careers Programme, such as an apprenticeship, internship or graduate programme, which 
usually have fixed end dates. You can read more on our Early Careers Programmes on page 41 of this report. 
Inchcape does not have a high usage of non-guaranteed hours, and these are usually for roles that require a certain degree of flexibility for the business and individual. 
Contingent employees 
Americas
APAC
Europe & Africa
Region unknown
Group
Total
6
6
45
10
67
Contingent workers are highly skilled resources for addressing talent shortage and who can fill in for specific projects. They tend to be contractors, freelancers or 
consultants who are engaged on a per-job non-permanent basis.
2-9
Governance structure 
and composition 
AR p. 63
The Board is Inchcape’s highest governance body. For details on Inchcape’s corporate governance structure, Board and Committees, please refer to the AR . 
The Sustainability Committee is responsible for reviewing the Group’s sustainability strategy.
2-10
Nomination and selection of 
the highest governance body
AR ps. 78-80
2-11
Chair of the highest 
governance body
The Chair of the Board is Jerry Buhlmann. He is not also a senior executive in the organisation. 
2-12
Role of the highest 
governance body 
in overseeing the 
management of impacts
AR ps. 62-90
The different Committees of the Board are responsible for governing different aspects of the business. The Audit Committee is responsible for internal control and risk 
management, compliance and whistleblowing, alongside its other responsibilities. The Sustainability Committee is responsible for sustainability strategy and reporting, 
the Planet and Places pillars and workforce engagement. This includes monitoring on-going engagement, the consideration of appropriate emissions targets and 
an ongoing assessment of performance against those targets.
You can read more about the Sustainability Committee and its responsibilities regarding the Group’s sustainability strategy on AR p. 90.
For details on how climate risk is assessed, please refer to our TCFD statement at AR p. 35.
A P P E N D I X

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
62
Annual Report 2024
AR
Sustainability Report 2024 (this report)
SR
GRI standard title
Disclosure number
Disclosure name
Source and commentary 
GRI 2: General 
Disclosures continued
2-13
Delegation of responsibility 
for managing impacts
AR ps. 89-90
The Sustainability Committee meets three times a year, with ad hoc meetings as necessary.
2-14
Role of the highest 
governance body in 
sustainability reporting
The Sustainability Committee is responsible for reviewing the report, including the organisation’s material topics.
2-15
Conflicts of interest
A Board Conflicts of Interest Policy is in place and reviewed annually. All Directors confirm they have no interests at the start of each meeting. There is also a Global 
Conflicts of Interest policy which applies to all employees. 
2-16
Communication of 
critical concerns
No critical concerns were reported to the Board during the period.
For our whistleblowing mechanisms, see SR p. 56.
2-17
Collective knowledge of the 
highest governance body
AR p. 64
2-18
Evaluation of the 
performance of the 
highest governance body
A Board Performance Review is conducted annually. An Independent Board Performance Review is conducted every three years in line with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code.
2-19, 2-20, 2-21
Remuneration policies; 
Process to determine 
remuneration; Annual total 
compensation ratio
AR ps. 91-106
2-22
Statement on sustainable 
development strategy 
SR p. 6
2-23, 2-24
Policy commitments; 
Embedding policy 
commitments
SR p. 56
Many of our sustainability issues are governed by policies, which are detailed in the relevant sections in this report.
2-26
Mechanisms for seeking 
advice and raising concerns
Our Global Policy Handbook is made available to all our colleagues. Our mechanisms for whistleblowing can be found on SR p. 55.
2-29
Approach to stakeholder 
engagement
SR p. 16
We engage with a broad range of internal and external stakeholders frequently and on an ongoing basis. You can find a list of our key stakeholders and how we 
engage on AR ps. 14-15.
A P P E N D I X

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
63
Annual Report 2024
AR
Sustainability Report 2024 (this report)
SR
GRI standard title
Disclosure number
Disclosure name
Source and commentary 
GRI 3: Material Topics
3-1, 3-2
Process to determine material 
topics, List of material topics
SR p.16
A list of the topics considered material to GRI reporting based on exceeding the threshold in our materiality matrix, and the corresponding GRI standards being 
reported against, are given below.
GRI 305: Emissions
305-1 – 305-4
Emissions calculations
Emissions calculations were undertaken using the following methodologies: 
GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard
GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance 
GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain Accounting and Reporting Standard
The intensity ratios given compare emissions data by dividing total tonnes of CO2e by revenue, an appropriate financial indicator. This allows for a fair comparison 
over time of CO2e emissions given the growth trajectory envisaged for the Group and cyclical variations in business activity. The full SECR table can be found on 
page 50 of the Annual Report. 
Metric category
2024
2023
Scope 1 (tCO2e)
20,418
21,733
Stationary combustion (tCO2e)
6,960
8,190
Vehicle fuel combustion (tCO2e)
12,299
11,892
Fugitive emissions (tCO2e)
1,158
1,651
Scope 2 (location-based, tCO2e)
26,576
29,105
Scope 2 (market-based, tCO2e)
16,825
18,528
(location-based, tCO2e)
46,994
50,838
(location-based, tCO2e/£m)
5.1
5.4
(market-based, tCO2e)
37,243
40,261
(market-based, tCO2e/£m)
4.0
4.3
Revenue (£m)
9,263
9,382
Emissions data previously published in the 2023 Sustainability Report and Annual Report has been restated. This is because the prior year has been adjusted for 
structural changes in the business and amendments for data gaps.
Inchcape does not purchase carbon offsets.
305-5
Reduction of GHG emissions
SR ps. 29-37
Wellbeing, health, and safety
GRI 401 – Employment
GRI 403 – Occupational H&S
GRI 407 – Collective Bargaining
Partners’ ESG performance
GRI 308 – Supplier Environmental Assessment
GRI 409 – Forced Labour
GRI 414 – Supplier Social Assessment
Cybersecurity
GRI 418 – Customer Privacy
Circularity
GRI 306 – Waste
Sustainable mobility 
NA
GHG emissions (direct)
GRI 305 – Emissions
GHG emissions (indirect)
GRI 305 – Emissions
A P P E N D I X

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
64
Annual Report 2024
AR
Sustainability Report 2024 (this report)
SR
GRI standard title
Disclosure number
Disclosure name
Source and commentary 
GRI 306: Waste
306
SR p. 38
We are currently working on improving the quantification of our waste, and understanding the approaches to quantification and management which will work in 
our different markets.
GRI 308: Supplier 
Environmental 
Assessment
308
SR p. 56
As part of developments to our global procurement strategy, we are introducing mandatory sustainability and GHG questionnaires for suppliers. The questionnaire 
asks procurement partners for their environmental policies, emission reduction targets, disclosure of environmental impacts, and sustainability certifications.
GRI 401: Employment
401-1
New employee hires and 
employee turnover
Data provided as at 31 December 2024. ‘Region unknown’ means colleagues were being onboarded at this time and regional data was not yet assigned. 
Colleagues hired
Gender
Americas
APAC
Europe & Africa
UK
Region unknown
Group
Total
Female
722
486
168
135
4
15
1530
Male
1041
767
348
410
2
16
2584
Other
1
1
2
Undeclared
Grand total
1764
1254
516
545
6
31
4116
By age group
Gender
Americas
APAC
Europe & Africa
UK
Region unknown
Group
Total
Under 30
825
508
226
266
1
13
1839
30-50
858
607
262
197
3
14
1941
Over 50
79
139
28
81
4
331
Info unavailable
2
1
2
5
Grand total
1764
1254
516
545
6
31
4116
Colleague turnover
Gender
Americas
APAC
Europe & Africa
UK
Region unknown
Group
Total
Female
824
354
156
1168
15
2517
Male
2086
740
455
3019
20
6320
Undeclared
1
1
Grand total
2910
1095
611
4187
35
8838
A P P E N D I X

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
65
Annual Report 2024
AR
Sustainability Report 2024 (this report)
SR
GRI standard title
Disclosure number
Disclosure name
Source and commentary 
GRI 401: Employment 
continued
401-2
Benefits provided for full-time 
vs non-full-time employees
By age group
Gender
Americas
APAC
Europe & Africa
UK
Region unknown
Group
Total
Under 30
937
326
218
1234
11
2726
30-50
1697
558
341
1883
12
4491
Over 50
275
211
52
1069
12
1619
Info unavailable
1
1
2
Grand total
2910
1095
611
4187
35
8838
For the purposes of this disclosure, ‘significant locations of operation’ is defined as Inchcape’s ten largest markets, which together account for over 70% of our colleagues.
Life Insurance
Healthcare
Disability & Invalidity Coverage
Full-time
Part-time
Temporary
Full-time
Part-time
Temporary
Full-time
Part-time
Temporary
Chile
Yes
No
No
Yes
No
No
Yes
No
No
Columbia DDC
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
No
No
No
Colombia
Yes
N/A
Yes
Yes
N/A
Yes
Yes
N/A
Yes
Peru
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Bolivia
Yes
N/A
Yes
Yes
N/A
Yes
Yes
N/A
Yes
Australia
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Singapore
Yes
N/A
No
Yes
N/A
Yes
Yes
N/A
Yes
Hong Kong
Yes
No
No
Yes
No
Yes
Yes
No
No
Philippines 
Yes
Yes
N/A
Yes
Yes
N/A
Yes
Yes
N/A
Philippines DDC
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
No
No
No
Poland
No
No
No
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Ethiopia
Yes
No
Yes
Yes
No
Yes
Yes
No
Yes
A P P E N D I X

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
66
Annual Report 2024
AR
Sustainability Report 2024 (this report)
SR
GRI standard title
Disclosure number
Disclosure name
Source and commentary 
GRI 401: Employment 
continued
401-2
Benefits provided for full-time 
vs non-full-time employees 
continued
Retirement Provision
Stock Ownership
Parental Leave 
Full-time
Part-time
Temporary
Full-time
Part-time
Temporary
Full-time
Part-time
Temporary
Chile
No
No
No
Yes
No
No
Yes
Yes
Yes
Columbia DDC
No
No
No
Yes
Yes
No
Yes
Yes
No
Colombia
Yes
N/A
Yes
Yes
N/A
No
Yes
N/A
Yes
Peru
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
No
No
Yes
Yes
Yes
Bolivia
Yes
N/A
No
Yes
N/A
No
Yes
N/A
Yes
Australia
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
No
Yes
Yes
Yes
Singapore
Yes
N/A
Yes
Yes
N/A
No
Yes
N/A
No
Hong Kong
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
No
No
Yes
Yes
Yes
Philippines 
Yes
No
N/A
Yes
N/A
N/A
Yes
Yes
N/A
Philippines DDC
No
No
No
Yes
Yes
No
Yes
Yes
No
Poland
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Yes
Ethiopia
Yes
No
Yes
Yes
No
No
Yes
No
Yes
401-3
Parental leave
We intend to share data on parental leave in future reporting. In 401-2, we provide data on parental leave provision in ten of our markets. 
GRI 403: Occupational 
Health and Safety
403-1 – 403-8
Health and safety 
management
SR p. 44
403-9
Work-related injuries
SR p. 44
Hazards and risks are identified through our risk management approach, which determines annually our global health and safety risks based on the Group Health 
and Safety Risk Profile. Incident reporting is systematically captured, with statistics tracked based on the following categories:
• High Consequence Risks: Injuries or non-injury-related incidents
• Recordable Workplace Injuries: Documented and tracked for analysis 
Subcategories are used to assist us in monitoring trends and developing programmes to mitigate the recurrence of incidents. 
Topic
Employees
Non-employees 
High Consequence
5
0
Recordable Workplace Injuries
61
0
Total incidents
671
0
In December 2024 the HSE Management system underwent an external surveillance audit for ISO 45001, with no non-conformances. The 2025 audit will expand this 
Scope to include ISO 45001 & 45003 OHS Management system and Psychological Workplace Safety.
Inchcape does not use LTI / LTIFR metrics as these are not appropriate for our business.
A P P E N D I X

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
67
Annual Report 2024
AR
Sustainability Report 2024 (this report)
SR
GRI standard title
Disclosure number
Disclosure name
Source and commentary 
GRI 407: Freedom 
of Association and 
Collective Bargaining
407
Collective bargaining and interactions with unions and/or work councils is seen at a local level in our Americas, APAC and Europe & Africa regions. These 
interactions are covered by policies at a local level, and interactions are managed by regional leaders.
GRI 409: Forced or 
Compulsory Labour
409
Wherever we do business, our colleagues are required to comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations including any local legislation on Modern Slavery. 
The general terms and conditions state that suppliers shall comply with all applicable laws, regulations and actions relating to modern slavery and human trafficking, 
including but not limited to the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
Our supplier Code of Conduct, a parallel document to our Code of Conduct, is applied globally and aligns with Group policy on modern slavery. We expect 
suppliers to implement and comply with the principles set out in the Code throughout their organisations and related supply chains.
The vast majority of our direct supply comes from organisations that are, themselves, required to publish statements setting out the steps that they have taken 
in this regard. We have reviewed those statements, where available, and will continue to do so periodically. We are satisfied that our major suppliers are taking 
appropriate actions to effectively manage and mitigate the risk of modern slavery in their supply chains.
Whilst we consider that the remainder of our supply is generally at low risk of exposure to modern slavery and human trafficking, our Global Procurement Policy, Risk 
Management Policy and Risk Management Framework takes account of potential increased modern slavery (and anti-bribery) risks. The Policies and general terms 
and conditions set out that where such increased risks are highlighted, supplier evaluation and due diligence shall be performed proportionate to the risk identified.
We recognise that ethical and productive partnerships with our suppliers strengthen our business, our reputation and that of our OEM Brand partners. We treat our 
suppliers fairly and with respect, and we expect them to know and to agree to uphold our high standards of compliance and ethics.
We expect our employees to act diligently when selecting suppliers and suppliers are required to work in compliance with the Inchcape Supplier Code of Conduct, 
contractual terms and conditions and within the guidelines / policies that have been established by their business. 
Our modern slavery statement can be accessed in full here. 
GRI 414: Supplier Social 
Assessment
414
SR p. 55 
Our supplier Code of Conduct, a parallel document to our Code of Conduct, establishes the behaviours we expect from our suppliers. Applied globally, this Code 
aligns with Group policy on anti-bribery and corruption and modern slavery. We expect suppliers to implement and comply with the principles set out in the Code 
throughout their organisations and related supply chains.
As we continue to develop our procurement systems, including the continued roll-out of our central digital system for procurement, we will continue to standardise 
procurement practices across our regions, and increase the extent to which we make social impact assessments of our suppliers.
GRI 418: Customer Privacy
418
SR p. 58 
Inchcape is committed to safeguarding all personal information and data which we are entrusted with. Ensuring confidentiality and security of data is integral to 
our operations.
We do not currently publicly disclose collected data on number of breaches or losses of customer data.
Statement of use
Inchcape plc has reported in accordance with the GRI Standards for the period 1 January 2024 to 31 December 2024.
A P P E N D I X

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Inchcape plc Sustainability Report 2024
inchcape.com
Overview
Our business
Delivering insights
Enabling technologies
Sustainable route to market
68
Battery Electric Vehicle (“BEV”) 
A vehicle powered entirely by an electric battery, with no internal combustion engine 
(“ICE”).
Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive (“CSRD”) 
A European Union directive that enhances and standardises corporate sustainability 
reporting, requiring large companies to disclose their environmental, social and 
governance (“ESG") impacts.
Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) 
An international organisation that provides standards for sustainability reporting, helping 
businesses and governments communicate their ESG impacts transparently.
Group Executive Team (“GET”) 
Inchcape’s senior leadership team responsible for strategic decision-making and 
overseeing global business operations.
Environmental, Social, and Governance (“ESG”) 
A framework used to evaluate a company’s sustainability and ethical impact, covering 
environmental responsibility, social practices and corporate governance.
Land Transport Authority (“LTA”) Singapore 
The agency responsible for Singapore’s land transport development, including public 
transport, roads and infrastructure planning.
Mild Hybrid Electric Vehicles (“MHEVs”) 
Vehicles that use a small electric motor to support the ICE, improving fuel efficiency but not 
capable of running on electricity alone.
New Energy Vehicles (“NEVs”) 
a category of vehicles that includes, Full Hybrids (“HEVs"), Plug-in Hybrids (“PHEVs"), Mild 
Hybrids (“MHEVs"), designed to reduce carbon emissions and reliance on fossil fuels
New Fuel Vehicles (“NFVs”) 
A term that may refer to vehicles powered by alternative fuels such as hydrogen or biofuels, 
though no specific reference was found in the provided sources.
National EV Specialist Safety (“NESS”) Certification 
A certification programme in Singapore designed to upskill professionals in electric vehicle 
(“EV") safety and servicing.
Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEMs”) 
Automotive manufacturers that design, produce and distribute vehicles, often partnering 
with Inchcape for market distribution.
GLOSSARY OF TERMS
G L O S S A R Y

--- PAGE BREAK ---

Inchcape plc
22a St James’s Square 
London SW1Y 5LP 
T +44 (0) 20 7546 0022
www.inchcape.com
Registered Number 609782